  1965    Nahum 3 
4  because of the multitude of the whoredoms of the well-favored 
harlot, the mistress of witchcrafts, that selleth nations through her 
whoredoms, and families through her witchcrafts. 
5  ¶ Behold, I am against thee, saith the Lord of hosts; and I will 
 
discover thy skirts upon thy face, and I will show the nations thy 
nakedness, and the kingdoms thy shame. 
6  And I will cast abominable filth upon thee, and make thee vile, and 
will set thee as a gazingstock. 
7  And it shall come to pass, that all they that look upon thee shall flee 
from thee, and say, Nineveh is laid waste: who will bemoan her? 
   
whence shall I seek comforters for thee? 
 
8  ¶ Art thou better than populous No [or, than No Amon], that was 
situate among the rivers, that had the waters round about it, whose 
rampart was the sea, and her wall was from the sea? 
 
9  Ethiopia and Egypt were her strength, and it was infinite; Put and 
 
Lubim were thy helpers. 
10  Yet was she carried away, she went into captivity: her young 
 
children also were dashed in pieces at the top of all the streets: and 
 
they cast lots for her honorable men, and all her great men were 
bound in chains. 
11  Thou also shalt be drunken: thou shalt be hid, thou also shalt seek 
 
strength because of the enemy. 
12  All thy strongholds shall be like fig trees with the first ripe figs: if 
 
they be shaken, they shall even fall into the mouth of the eater. 
13  Behold, thy people in the midst of thee are women: the gates of thy 
 
land shall be set wide open unto thine enemies: the fire shall 
 
devour thy bars. 
14  ¶ Draw thee waters for the siege, fortify thy strongholds: go into 
 
clay, and tread the mortar, make strong the brickkiln. 
15  There shall the fire devour thee; the sword shall cut thee off, it shall 
 
eat thee up like the cankerworm: make thyself many as the 
 
cankerworm, make thyself many as the locusts. 
16  Thou hast multiplied thy merchants above the stars of heaven: the 
 
cankerworm spoileth, and fleeth away. 