  1831    Ezekiel 34 
16  I will seek that which was lost, and bring again that which was 
driven away, and will bind up that which was broken, and will 
strengthen that which was sick: but I will destroy the fat and the 
 
strong; I will feed them with judgment. 
 
17  ¶ And as for you, O my flock, thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I 
 
judge between cattle and cattle, between the rams and the he goats. 
18  Seemeth it a small thing unto you to have eaten up the good pasture, 
but ye must tread down with your feet the residue of your pastures? 
 
and to have drunk of the deep waters, but ye must foul the residue 
with your feet? 
 
19  And as for my flock, they eat that which ye have trodden with your 
feet; and they drink that which ye have fouled with your feet. 
 
20  ¶ Therefore thus saith the Lord God unto them; Behold, I, even I, 
 
will judge between the fat cattle and between the lean cattle. 
21  Because ye have thrust with side and with shoulder, and pushed all 
the diseased with your horns, till ye have scattered them abroad; 
 
22  therefore will I save my flock, and they shall no more be a prey; and 
 
I will judge between cattle and cattle. 
23  And I will set up one shepherd over them, and he shall feed them, 
even my servant David; he shall feed them, and he shall be their 
 
shepherd.  
24  And I the Lord will be their God, and my servant David a prince 
among them; I the Lord have spoken it. 
 
25  ¶ And I will make with them a covenant of peace, and will cause 
the evil beasts to cease out of the land: and they shall dwell safely in 
 
the wilderness, and sleep in the woods. 
26  And I will make them and the places round about my hill a 
blessing; and I will cause the shower to come down in his season; 
   
there shall be showers of blessing. 
27  And the tree of the field shall yield her fruit, and the earth shall 
yield her increase, and they shall be safe in their land, and shall 
know that I am the Lord, when I have broken the bands of their 
yoke, and delivered them out of the hand of those that served 
themselves of them. 