  2440    1 Corinthians 10 
6  ¶ Now these things were our examples, to the intent we should not 
lust after evil things, as they also lusted.  
7  Neither be ye idolaters, as were some of them; as it is written, The 
 
people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play.  
8  Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed, 
and fell in one day three and twenty thousand.  
9  Neither let us tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted, and 
were destroyed of serpents.  
10  Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured, and were 
destroyed of the destroyer.  
11  Now all these things happened unto them for ensamples: and they 
 
are written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world 
are come. 
12  Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall. 
13  There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to 
man: but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted 
 
above that ye are able; but will with the temptation also make a 
 
way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it. 
14  ¶ Wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry. 
15  I speak as to wise men; judge ye what I say. 
 
16  The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the 
blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the 
 
communion of the body of Christ?  
 
17  For we being many are one bread, and one body: for we are all 
 
partakers of that one bread. 
18  Behold Israel after the flesh: are not they which eat of the sacrifices 
 
partakers of the altar?  
 
19  What say I then? that the idol is any thing, or that which is offered 
 
in sacrifice to idols is any thing? 
 
20  But I say, that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice 
to devils, and not to God: and I would not that ye should have 
 
fellowship with devils. 
21  Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of devils: ye 
 
cannot be partakers of the Lord’s table, and of the table of devils. 
22  Do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? are we stronger than he? 
   