  813    1 Kings 17 
9  Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell 
there: behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain 
 
thee. 
10  So he arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the gate 
of the city, behold, the widow woman was there gathering of sticks: 
 
and he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in 
a vessel, that I may drink. 
11  And as she was going to fetch it, he called to her, and said, Bring 
me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand. 
12  And she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but a 
handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruse: and, behold, I 
 
am gathering two sticks, that I may go in and dress it for me and my 
son, that we may eat it, and die. 
13  And Elijah said unto her, Fear not; go and do as thou hast said: but 
   
make me thereof a little cake first, and bring it unto me, and after 
make for thee and for thy son. 
14  For thus saith the Lord God of Israel, The barrel of meal shall not 
waste, neither shall the cruse of oil fail, until the day that the Lord 
sendeth rain upon the earth. 
15  And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah: and she, 
 
and he, and her house, did eat many days. 
16  And the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruse of oil fail, 
according to the word of the Lord, which he spake by Elijah. 
17  ¶ And it came to pass after these things, that the son of the woman, 
the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness was so sore, that 
 
there was no breath left in him. 
18  And she said unto Elijah, What have I to do with thee, O thou man 
of God? art thou come unto me to call my sin to remembrance, and 
 
to slay my son? 
 
19  And he said unto her, Give me thy son. And he took him out of her 
bosom, and carried him up into a loft, where he abode, and laid 
him upon his own bed. 
20  And he cried unto the Lord, and said, O Lord my God, hast thou 
also brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn, by slaying 
her son? 
 