  952    1 Chronicles 21 
9  And the Lord spake unto Gad, David’s seer, saying, 
10  Go and tell David, saying, Thus saith the Lord, I offer thee three 
things: choose thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee. 
 
11  So Gad came to David, and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, 
Choose thee 
12  either three years’ famine; or three months to be destroyed before 
 
thy foes, while that the sword of thine enemies overtaketh thee; or 
 
else three days the sword of the Lord, even the pestilence, in the 
land, and the angel of the Lord destroying throughout all the 
coasts of Israel. Now therefore advise thyself what word I shall 
bring again to him that sent me. 
13  And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let me fall now into 
 
the hand of the Lord; for very great are his mercies: but let me not 
   
fall into the hand of man. 
14  ¶ So the Lord sent pestilence upon Israel: and there fell of Israel 
 
seventy thousand men. 
15  And God sent an angel unto Jerusalem to destroy it: and as he was 
 
destroying, the Lord beheld, and he repented him of the evil, and 
said to the angel that destroyed, It is enough, stay now thine hand. 
And the angel of the Lord stood by the threshingfloor of Ornan 
the Jebusite. 
16  And David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of the Lord stand 
between the earth and the heaven, having a drawn sword in his 
hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders of 
Israel, who were clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces. 
17  And David said unto God, Is it not I that commanded the people to 
be numbered? even I it is that have sinned and done evil indeed; 
   
but as for these sheep, what have they done? let thine hand, I pray 
 
thee, O Lord my God, be on me, and on my father’s house; but 
 
not on thy people, that they should be plagued. 
18  ¶ Then the angel of the Lord commanded Gad to say to David, 
that David should go up, and set up an altar unto the Lord in the 
threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
19  And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spake in the 
name of the Lord. 