  1585    Isaiah 51 
8  For the moth shall eat them up like a garment, and the worm shall 
eat them like wool: but my righteousness shall be for ever, and my 
 
salvation from generation to generation. 
9  ¶ Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the Lord; awake, as in 
 
the ancient days, in the generations of old. Art thou not it that hath 
cut Rahab, and wounded the dragon? 
 
10  Art thou not it which hath dried the sea, the waters of the great 
deep; that hath made the depths of the sea a way for the ransomed 
 
to pass over? 
 
11  Therefore the redeemed of the Lord shall return, and come with 
singing unto Zion; and everlasting joy shall be upon their head: 
   
they shall obtain gladness and joy; and sorrow and mourning shall 
 
flee away. 
12  ¶ I, even I, am he that comforteth you: who art thou, that thou 
 
shouldest be afraid of a man that shall die, and of the son of man 
which shall be made as grass; 
 
13  and forgettest the Lord thy Maker, that hath stretched forth the 
heavens, and laid the foundations of the earth; and hast feared 
 
continually every day because of the fury of the oppressor, as if he 
were ready to destroy? and where is the fury of the oppressor? 
   
14  The captive exile hasteneth that he may be loosed, and that he 
should not die in the pit, nor that his bread should fail. 
15  But I am the Lord thy God, that divided the sea, whose waves 
roared: The Lord of hosts is his name. 
 
16  And I have put my words in thy mouth, and I have covered thee in 
the shadow of mine hand, that I may plant the heavens, and lay the 
foundations of the earth, and say unto Zion, Thou art my people. 
17  ¶ Awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem, which hast drunk at the 
hand of the Lord the cup of his fury; thou hast drunken the dregs 
 
of the cup of trembling, and wrung them out. 
18  There is none to guide her among all the sons whom she hath 
brought forth; neither is there any that taketh her by the hand of all 
 
the sons that she hath brought up. 