  717    2 Samuel 11 
10  And when they had told David, saying, Uriah went not down unto 
his house, David said unto Uriah, Camest thou not from thy 
journey? why then didst thou not go down unto thine house? 
   
11  And Uriah said unto David, The ark, and Israel, and Judah, abide 
in tents; and my lord Joab, and the servants of my lord, are 
 
encamped in the open fields; shall I then go into mine house, to eat 
 
and to drink, and to lie with my wife? as thou livest, and as thy soul 
 
liveth, I will not do this thing. 
12  And David said to Uriah, Tarry here today also, and tomorrow I 
will let thee depart. So Uriah abode in Jerusalem that day, and the 
morrow. 
13  And when David had called him, he did eat and drink before him; 
 
and he made him drunk: and at even he went out to lie on his bed 
 
with the servants of his lord, but went not down to his house. 
14  ¶ And it came to pass in the morning, that David wrote a letter to 
Joab, and sent it by the hand of Uriah. 
15  And he wrote in the letter, saying, Set ye Uriah in the forefront of 
the hottest battle, and retire ye from him, that he may be smitten, 
and die. 
16  And it came to pass, when Joab observed the city, that he assigned 
Uriah unto a place where he knew that valiant men were. 
17  And the men of the city went out, and fought with Joab: and there 
 
fell some of the people of the servants of David; and Uriah the 
 
Hittite died also. 
18  Then Joab sent and told David all the things concerning the war; 
 
19  and charged the messenger, saying, When thou hast made an end 
of telling the matters of the war unto the king, 
20  and if so be that the king’s wrath arise, and he say unto thee, 
Wherefore approached ye so nigh unto the city when ye did fight? 
 
knew ye not that they would shoot from the wall? 
 
21  Who smote Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth? did not a woman 
 
cast a piece of a millstone upon him from the wall, that he died in 
Thebez? why went ye nigh the wall? then say thou, Thy servant 
   
Uriah the Hittite is dead also. 