  1680    Jeremiah 31 
7  ¶ For thus saith the Lord; Sing with gladness for Jacob, and shout 
 
among the chief of the nations: publish ye, praise ye, and say, O 
 
Lord, save thy people, the remnant of Israel. 
8  Behold, I will bring them from the north country, and gather them 
from the coasts of the earth, and with them the blind and the lame, 
the woman with child and her that travaileth with child together: a 
 
great company shall return thither. 
9  They shall come with weeping, and with supplications will I lead 
them: I will cause them to walk by the rivers of waters in a straight 
 
way, wherein they shall not stumble: for I am a father to Israel, and 
 
Ephraim is my firstborn. 
10  ¶ Hear the word of the Lord, O ye nations, and declare it in the 
isles afar off, and say, He that scattered Israel will gather him, and 
keep him, as a shepherd doth his flock. 
11  For the Lord hath redeemed Jacob, and ransomed him from the 
hand of him that was stronger than he. 
12  Therefore they shall come and sing in the height of Zion, and shall 
flow together to the goodness of the Lord, for wheat, and for 
wine, and for oil, and for the young of the flock and of the herd: 
 
and their soul shall be as a watered garden; and they shall not 
 
sorrow any more at all. 
13  Then shall the virgin rejoice in the dance, both young men and old 
together: for I will turn their mourning into joy, and will comfort 
 
them, and make them rejoice from their sorrow. 
14  And I will satiate the soul of the priests with fatness, and my people 
shall be satisfied with my goodness, saith the Lord. 
15  ¶ Thus saith the Lord; A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, 
 
and bitter weeping; Rachel weeping for her children refused to be 
 
comforted for her children, because they were not.  
16  Thus saith the Lord; Refrain thy voice from weeping, and thine 
 
eyes from tears: for thy work shall be rewarded, saith the Lord; 
   
and they shall come again from the land of the enemy. 
17  And there is hope in thine end, saith the Lord, that thy children 
shall come again to their own border. 