  663    1 Samuel 18 
David played with his hand, as at other times: and there was a 
 
javelin in Saul’s hand. 
11  And Saul cast the javelin; for he said, I will smite David even to the 
 
wall with it. And David avoided out of his presence twice. 
12  ¶ And Saul was afraid of David, because the Lord was with him, 
and was departed from Saul. 
13  Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain 
over a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people. 
 
14  And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways; and the Lord 
 
was with him. 
15  Wherefore when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he 
was afraid of him. 
16  But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out and came 
in before them. 
17  ¶ And Saul said to David, Behold my elder daughter Merab, her 
will I give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and fight the 
 
Lord’s battles. For Saul said, Let not mine hand be upon him, but 
let the hand of the Philistines be upon him. 
18  And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, or my 
 
father’s family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king? 
 
19  But it came to pass at the time when Merab Saul’s daughter should 
have been given to David, that she was given unto Adriel the 
Meholathite to wife. 
20  ¶ And Michal Saul’s daughter loved David: and they told Saul, and 
 
the thing pleased him. 
21  And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare to him, 
and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Wherefore 
Saul said to David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law in the one 
of the twain. 
22  And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Commune with David 
secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his 
servants love thee: now therefore be the king’s son-in-law. 
 
23  And Saul’s servants spake those words in the ears of David. And 
David said, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be a king’s son-in-law, 
seeing that I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed? 
 