  1087    Nehemiah 5 
even sell your brethren? or shall they be sold unto us? Then held 
   
they their peace, and found nothing to answer. 
9  Also I said, It is not good that ye do: ought ye not to walk in the fear 
 
of our God because of the reproach of the heathen our enemies? 
 
10  I likewise, and my brethren, and my servants, might exact of them 
money and corn: I pray you, let us leave off this usury. 
 
11  Restore, I pray you, to them, even this day, their lands, their 
vineyards, their oliveyards, and their houses, also the hundredth 
part of the money, and of the corn, the wine, and the oil, that ye 
exact of them. 
12  Then said they, We will restore them, and will require nothing of 
them; so will we do as thou sayest. Then I called the priests, and 
 
took an oath of them, that they should do according to this 
promise. 
13  Also I shook my lap, and said, So God shake out every man from his 
house, and from his labor, that performeth not this promise, even 
thus be he shaken out, and emptied. And all the congregation said, 
Amen, and praised the Lord. And the people did according to this 
promise. 
14  ¶ Moreover from the time that I was appointed to be their governor 
in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year even unto the two 
and thirtieth year of Artaxerxes the king, that is, twelve years, I and 
my brethren have not eaten the bread of the governor. 
15  But the former governors that had been before me were chargeable 
unto the people, and had taken of them bread and wine, besides 
forty shekels of silver; yea, even their servants bare rule over the 
 
people: but so did not I, because of the fear of God. 
 
16  Yea, also I continued in the work of this wall, neither bought we 
any land: and all my servants were gathered thither unto the work. 
 
17  Moreover there were at my table a hundred and fifty of the Jews and 
rulers, besides those that came unto us from among the heathen 
that are about us. 
18  Now that which was prepared for me daily was one ox and six choice 
sheep; also fowls were prepared for me, and once in ten days store 
 