  1729    Jeremiah 50 
36  A sword is upon the liars; and they shall dote: a sword is upon her 
   
mighty men; and they shall be dismayed. 
 
37  A sword is upon their horses, and upon their chariots, and upon all 
the mingled people that are in the midst of her; and they shall 
 
become as women: a sword is upon her treasures; and they shall be 
   
robbed. 
38  A drought is upon her waters; and they shall be dried up: for it is 
   
the land of graven images, and they are mad upon their idols. 
39  Therefore the wild beasts of the desert with the wild beasts of the 
islands shall dwell there, and the owls shall dwell therein: and it 
 
shall be no more inhabited for ever; neither shall it be dwelt in 
 
from generation to generation. 
40  As God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbor cities 
thereof, saith the Lord; so shall no man abide there, neither shall 
 
any son of man dwell therein. 
41  ¶ Behold, a people shall come from the north, and a great nation, 
and many kings shall be raised up from the coasts of the earth. 
42  They shall hold the bow and the lance: they are cruel, and will not 
 
show mercy: their voice shall roar like the sea, and they shall ride 
 
upon horses, every one put in array, like a man to the battle, against 
thee, O daughter of Babylon. 
43  The king of Babylon hath heard the report of them, and his hands 
waxed feeble: anguish took hold of him, and pangs as of a woman 
 
in travail. 
44  Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the swelling of Jordan 
unto the habitation of the strong: but I will make them suddenly 
 
run away from her: and who is a chosen man, that I may appoint 
 
over her? for who is like me? and who will appoint me the time? 
     
and who is that shepherd that will stand before me? 
 
45  Therefore hear ye the counsel of the Lord, that he hath taken 
against Babylon; and his purposes, that he hath purposed against 
 
the land of the Chaldeans: Surely the least of the flock shall draw 
 
them out: surely he shall make their habitation desolate with them. 
 
46  At the noise of the taking of Babylon the earth is moved, and the 
cry is heard among the nations. 