  1774    Ezekiel 12 
12  And the prince that is among them shall bear upon his shoulder in 
the twilight, and shall go forth: they shall dig through the wall to 
 
carry out thereby: he shall cover his face, that he see not the ground 
 
with his eyes. 
13  My net also will I spread upon him, and he shall be taken in my 
snare: and I will bring him to Babylon to the land of the Chaldeans; 
   
yet shall he not see it, though he shall die there. 
14  And I will scatter toward every wind all that are about him to help 
him, and all his bands; and I will draw out the sword after them. 
 
15  And they shall know that I am the Lord, when I shall scatter them 
among the nations, and disperse them in the countries. 
16  But I will leave a few men of them from the sword, from the 
famine, and from the pestilence; that they may declare all their 
 
abominations among the heathen whither they come; and they 
 
shall know that I am the Lord. 
17  ¶ Moreover the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
18  Son of man, eat thy bread with quaking, and drink thy water with 
trembling and with carefulness; 
 
19  and say unto the people of the land, Thus saith the Lord God of the 
inhabitants of Jerusalem, and of the land of Israel; They shall eat 
 
their bread with carefulness, and drink their water with 
astonishment, that her land may be desolate from all that is 
therein, because of the violence of all them that dwell therein. 
20  And the cities that are inhabited shall be laid waste, and the land 
shall be desolate; and ye shall know that I am the Lord. 
 
21  ¶ And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, 
22  Son of man, what is that proverb that ye have in the land of Israel, 
saying, The days are prolonged, and every vision faileth? 
 
23  Tell them therefore, Thus saith the Lord God; I will make this 
 
proverb to cease, and they shall no more use it as a proverb in 
Israel; but say unto them, The days are at hand, and the effect of 
 
every vision. 
24  For there shall be no more any vain vision nor flattering divination 
within the house of Israel. 