  868    2 Kings 14 
Lebanon, saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there 
 
passed by a wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trode down the 
thistle. 
10  Thou hast indeed smitten Edom, and thine heart hath lifted thee 
up: glory of this, and tarry at home: for why shouldest thou meddle 
   
to thy hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judah with 
thee? 
 
11  ¶ But Amaziah would not hear. Therefore Jehoash king of Israel 
went up; and he and Amaziah king of Judah looked one another in 
 
the face at Beth-shemesh, which belongeth to Judah. 
12  And Judah was put to the worse before Israel; and they fled every 
 
man to their tents. 
13  And Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of 
Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, at Beth-shemesh, and came to 
Jerusalem, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of 
Ephraim unto the corner gate, four hundred cubits. 
14  And he took all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were 
found in the house of the Lord, and in the treasures of the king’s 
house, and hostages, and returned to Samaria. 
15  ¶ Now the rest of the acts of Jehoash which he did, and his might, 
and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not 
written in the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel? 
 
16  And Jehoash slept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria with 
the kings of Israel; and Jeroboam his son reigned in his stead. 
 
17  ¶ And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death 
of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years. 
18  And the rest of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in the 
book of the Chronicles of the kings of Judah? 
 
19  Now they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem: and he fled 
 
to Lachish; but they sent after him to Lachish, and slew him there. 
 
20  And they brought him on horses: and he was buried at Jerusalem 
 
with his fathers in the city of David. 
21  And all the people of Judah took Azariah, which was sixteen years 
old, and made him king instead of his father Amaziah. 