  349    Numbers 16 
will cause him to come near unto him: even him whom he hath 
 
chosen will he cause to come near unto him. 
6  This do; Take you censers, Korah, and all his company; 
   
7  and put fire therein, and put incense in them before the Lord 
tomorrow: and it shall be that the man whom the Lord doth 
 
choose, he shall be holy: ye take too much upon you, ye sons of Levi. 
 
8  And Moses said unto Korah, Hear, I pray you, ye sons of Levi: 
 
9  seemeth it but a small thing unto you, that the God of Israel hath 
separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to 
himself to do the service of the tabernacle of the Lord, and to 
stand before the congregation to minister unto them? 
 
10  And he hath brought thee near to him, and all thy brethren the sons 
of Levi with thee: and seek ye the priesthood also? 
   
11  For which cause both thou and all thy company are gathered 
together against the Lord: and what is Aaron, that ye murmur 
 
against him? 
 
12  ¶ And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab; 
 
which said, We will not come up: 
 
13  is it a small thing that thou hast brought us up out of a land that 
floweth with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, except 
thou make thyself altogether a prince over us? 
 
14  Moreover, thou hast not brought us into a land that floweth with 
milk and honey, or given us inheritance of fields and vineyards: 
 
wilt thou put out the eyes of these men? we will not come up. 
 
15  ¶ And Moses was very wroth, and said unto the Lord, Respect not 
thou their offering: I have not taken one ass from them, neither 
 
have I hurt one of them. 
16  And Moses said unto Korah, Be thou and all thy company before 
the Lord, thou, and they, and Aaron, tomorrow: 
 
17  and take every man his censer, and put incense in them, and bring 
ye before the Lord every man his censer, two hundred and fifty 
censers; thou also, and Aaron, each of you his censer. 
 
18  And they took every man his censer, and put fire in them, and laid 
incense thereon, and stood in the door of the tabernacle of the 
congregation with Moses and Aaron. 