  252    Leviticus 11 
33  And every earthen vessel, whereinto any of them falleth, 
whatsoever is in it shall be unclean; and ye shall break it. 
 
34  Of all meat which may be eaten, that on which such water cometh 
shall be unclean: and all drink that may be drunk in every such 
 
vessel shall be unclean. 
35  And every thing whereupon any part of their carcass falleth shall be 
unclean; whether it be oven, or ranges for pots, they shall be broken 
 
down: for they are unclean, and shall be unclean unto you. 
 
36  Nevertheless a fountain or pit, wherein there is plenty of water, shall 
be clean: but that which toucheth their carcass shall be unclean. 
 
37  And if any part of their carcass fall upon any sowing seed which is to 
be sown, it shall be clean. 
38  But if any water be put upon the seed, and any part of their carcass 
fall thereon, it shall be unclean unto you. 
39  ¶ And if any beast, of which ye may eat, die; he that toucheth the 
 
carcass thereof shall be unclean until the even. 
40  And he that eateth of the carcass of it shall wash his clothes, and be 
unclean until the even: he also that beareth the carcass of it shall 
 
wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even. 
41  ¶ And every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth shall be an 
abomination; it shall not be eaten. 
 
42  Whatsoever goeth upon the belly, and whatsoever goeth upon all 
four, or whatsoever hath more feet among all creeping things that 
creep upon the earth, them ye shall not eat; for they are an 
 
abomination. 
43  Ye shall not make yourselves abominable with any creeping thing 
that creepeth, neither shall ye make yourselves unclean with them, 
that ye should be defiled thereby. 
44  For I am the Lord your God: ye shall therefore sanctify yourselves, 
 
and ye shall be holy; for I am holy: neither shall ye defile yourselves 
   
with any manner of creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. 
45  For I am the Lord that bringeth you up out of the land of Egypt, to 
be your God: ye shall therefore be holy, for I am holy. 
 