  1110    Nehemiah 13 
16  There dwelt men of Tyre also therein, which brought fish, and all 
manner of ware, and sold on the sabbath unto the children of 
Judah, and in Jerusalem. 
17  Then I contended with the nobles of Judah, and said unto them, 
What evil thing is this that ye do, and profane the sabbath day? 
 
18  Did not your fathers thus, and did not our God bring all this evil 
upon us, and upon this city? yet ye bring more wrath upon Israel by 
 
profaning the sabbath. 
19  ¶ And it came to pass, that when the gates of Jerusalem began to be 
dark before the sabbath, I commanded that the gates should be 
shut, and charged that they should not be opened till after the 
sabbath: and some of my servants set I at the gates, that there should 
 
no burden be brought in on the sabbath day. 
20  So the merchants and sellers of all kind of ware lodged without 
Jerusalem once or twice. 
21  Then I testified against them, and said unto them, Why lodge ye 
about the wall? if ye do so again, I will lay hands on you. From that 
 
time forth came they no more on the sabbath. 
22  And I commanded the Levites, that they should cleanse 
themselves, and that they should come and keep the gates, to 
sanctify the sabbath day. Remember me, O my God, concerning this 
also, and spare me according to the greatness of thy mercy. 
23  ¶ In those days also saw I Jews that had married wives of Ashdod, of 
Ammon, and of Moab: 
 
24  and their children spake half in the speech of Ashdod, and could 
not speak in the Jews’ language, but according to the language of 
each people. 
25  And I contended with them, and cursed them, and smote certain of 
them, and plucked off their hair, and made them swear by God, 
saying, Ye shall not give your daughters unto their sons, nor take 
their daughters unto your sons, or for yourselves.  
26  Did not Solomon king of Israel sin by these things? yet among 
 
many nations was there no king like him, who was beloved of his 
God, and God made him king over all Israel: nevertheless even him 
 
did outlandish women cause to sin.  