  823    1 Kings 20 
28  And there came a man of God, and spake unto the king of Israel, 
and said, Thus saith the Lord, Because the Syrians have said, The 
Lord is God of the hills, but he is not God of the valleys, therefore 
will I deliver all this great multitude into thine hand, and ye shall 
know that I am the Lord. 
29  And they pitched one over against the other seven days. And so it 
was, that in the seventh day the battle was joined: and the children 
 
of Israel slew of the Syrians a hundred thousand footmen in one 
day. 
30  But the rest fled to Aphek, into the city; and there a wall fell upon 
 
twenty and seven thousand of the men that were left. 
¶ And Ben-hadad fled, and came into the city, into an inner 
chamber. 
31  And his servants said unto him, Behold now, we have heard that 
the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings: let us, I pray 
 
thee, put sackcloth on our loins, and ropes upon our heads, and go 
out to the king of Israel: peradventure he will save thy life. 
 
32  So they girded sackcloth on their loins, and put ropes on their 
heads, and came to the king of Israel, and said, Thy servant Ben-
hadad saith, I pray thee, let me live. And he said, Is he yet alive? he 
 
is my brother. 
33  Now the men did diligently observe whether any thing would come 
from him, and did hastily catch it: and they said, Thy brother Ben-
 
hadad. Then he said, Go ye, bring him. Then Ben-hadad came forth 
to him; and he caused him to come up into the chariot. 
 
34  And Ben-hadad said unto him, The cities, which my father took 
from thy father, I will restore; and thou shalt make streets for thee 
 
in Damascus, as my father made in Samaria. Then said Ahab, I will 
send thee away with this covenant. So he made a covenant with 
him, and sent him away. 
35  ¶ And a certain man of the sons of the prophets said unto his 
neighbor in the word of the Lord, Smite me, I pray thee. And the 
man refused to smite him. 
36  Then said he unto him, Because thou hast not obeyed the voice of 
the Lord, behold, as soon as thou art departed from me, a lion 