  1975    Zephaniah 2 
3  Seek ye the Lord, all ye meek of the earth, which have wrought his 
judgment; seek righteousness, seek meekness: it may be ye shall be 
   
hid in the day of the Lord’s anger. 
4  For Gaza shall be forsaken, and Ashkelon a desolation: they shall 
 
drive out Ashdod at the noonday, and Ekron shall be rooted up. 
5  ¶ Woe unto the inhabitants of the seacoast, the nation of the 
Cherethites! the word of the Lord is against you; O Canaan, the 
   
land of the Philistines, I will even destroy thee, that there shall be 
no inhabitant. 
6  And the seacoast shall be dwellings and cottages for shepherds, and 
folds for flocks. 
7  And the coast shall be for the remnant of the house of Judah; they 
 
shall feed thereupon: in the houses of Ashkelon shall they lie down 
 
in the evening: for the Lord their God shall visit them, and turn 
 
away their captivity. 
8  ¶ I have heard the reproach of Moab, and the revilings of the 
children of Ammon, whereby they have reproached my people, 
and magnified themselves against their border. 
9  Therefore, as I live, saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, 
Surely Moab shall be as Sodom, and the children of Ammon as 
Gomorrah, even the breeding of nettles, and saltpits, and a 
perpetual desolation: the residue of my people shall spoil them, 
 
and the remnant of my people shall possess them. 
10  This shall they have for their pride, because they have reproached 
and magnified themselves against the people of the Lord of hosts. 
11  The Lord will be terrible unto them: for he will famish all the gods 
 
of the earth; and men shall worship him, every one from his place, 
 
even all the isles of the heathen. 
12  ¶ Ye Ethiopians also, ye shall be slain by my sword. 
13  And he will stretch out his hand against the north, and destroy 
Assyria; and will make Nineveh a desolation, and dry like a 
 
wilderness. 
14  And flocks shall lie down in the midst of her, all the beasts of the 
nations: both the cormorant and the bittern shall lodge in the 
 