  1786    Ezekiel 17 
2  Son of man, put forth a riddle, and speak a parable unto the house 
of Israel; 
 
3  and say, Thus saith the Lord God; A great eagle with great wings, 
 
long-winged, full of feathers, which had divers colors, came unto 
Lebanon, and took the highest branch of the cedar: 
 
4  he cropped off the top of his young twigs, and carried it into a land 
of traffic; he set it in a city of merchants. 
 
5  He took also of the seed of the land, and planted it in a fruitful 
field; he placed it by great waters, and set it as a willow tree. 
 
6  And it grew, and became a spreading vine of low stature, whose 
branches turned toward him, and the roots thereof were under 
him: so it became a vine, and brought forth branches, and shot 
 
forth sprigs. 
7  ¶ There was also another great eagle with great wings and many 
feathers: and, behold, this vine did bend her roots toward him, and 
 
shot forth her branches toward him, that he might water it by the 
furrows of her plantation. 
8  It was planted in a good soil by great waters, that it might bring 
forth branches, and that it might bear fruit, that it might be a 
goodly vine. 
9  Say thou, Thus saith the Lord God; Shall it prosper? shall he not 
   
pull up the roots thereof, and cut off the fruit thereof, that it 
wither? it shall wither in all the leaves of her spring, even without 
 
great power or many people to pluck it up by the roots thereof. 
10  Yea, behold, being planted, shall it prosper? shall it not utterly 
 
wither, when the east wind toucheth it? it shall wither in the 
 
furrows where it grew. 
11  ¶ Moreover the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, 
12  Say now to the rebellious house, Know ye not what these things 
mean? tell them, Behold, the king of Babylon is come to Jerusalem, 
 
and hath taken the king thereof, and the princes thereof, and led 
them with him to Babylon; 
 
13  and hath taken of the king’s seed, and made a covenant with him, 
and hath taken an oath of him: he hath also taken the mighty of 
 
the land: 
 