  2650    Revelation 21 
10  And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain, 
and showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out 
of heaven from God, 
11  having the glory of God: and her light was like unto a stone most 
 
precious, even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal; 
 
12  and had a wall great and high, and had twelve gates, and at the gates 
twelve angels, and names written thereon, which are the names of 
the twelve tribes of the children of Israel: 
 
13  on the east three gates; on the north three gates; on the south three 
   
gates; and on the west three gates.  
 
14  And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the 
names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. 
15  ¶ And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the city, 
and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof.  
16  And the city lieth foursquare, and the length is as large as the 
breadth: and he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand 
 
furlongs. The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal. 
17  And he measured the wall thereof, a hundred and forty and four 
cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of the angel. 
18  And the building of the wall of it was of jasper: and the city was pure 
 
gold, like unto clear glass. 
19  And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with all 
manner of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the 
 
second, sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth, an emerald; 
     
20  the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the 
     
eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, a chrysoprasus; the 
     
eleventh, a jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst. 
 
21  And the twelve gates were twelve pearls; every several gate was of 
 
one pearl: and the street of the city was pure gold, as it were 
 
transparent glass. 
22  ¶ And I saw no temple therein: for the Lord God Almighty and the 
 
Lamb are the temple of it. 
23  And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine 
in it: for the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the light 
 
thereof. 