  726    2 Samuel 14 
as one which is faulty, in that the king doth not fetch home again 
his banished. 
14  For we must needs die, and are as water spilt on the ground, which 
cannot be gathered up again; neither doth God respect any person; 
   
yet doth he devise means, that his banished be not expelled from 
him. 
15  Now therefore that I am come to speak of this thing unto my lord 
the king, it is because the people have made me afraid: and thy 
 
handmaid said, I will now speak unto the king; it may be that the 
 
king will perform the request of his handmaid. 
16  For the king will hear, to deliver his handmaid out of the hand of 
the man that would destroy me and my son together out of the 
inheritance of God. 
17  Then thine handmaid said, The word of my lord the king shall now 
be comfortable: for as an angel of God, so is my lord the king to 
 
discern good and bad: therefore the Lord thy God will be with 
 
thee. 
18  ¶ Then the king answered and said unto the woman, Hide not 
from me, I pray thee, the thing that I shall ask thee. And the 
woman said, Let my lord the king now speak. 
19  And the king said, Is not the hand of Joab with thee in all this? And 
 
the woman answered and said, As thy soul liveth, my lord the king, 
none can turn to the right hand or to the left from aught that my 
lord the king hath spoken: for thy servant Joab, he bade me, and he 
 
put all these words in the mouth of thine handmaid: 
 
20  to fetch about this form of speech hath thy servant Joab done this 
thing: and my lord is wise, according to the wisdom of an angel of 
 
God, to know all things that are in the earth. 
21  ¶ And the king said unto Joab, Behold now, I have done this thing: 
 
go therefore, bring the young man Absalom again. 
22  And Joab fell to the ground on his face, and bowed himself, and 
thanked the king: and Joab said, Today thy servant knoweth that I 
 
have found grace in thy sight, my lord, O king, in that the king 
hath fulfilled the request of his servant. 