  1095    Nehemiah 8 
bowed their heads, and worshipped the Lord with their faces to the 
ground. 
7  Also Jeshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, 
Hodijah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and 
the Levites, caused the people to understand the law: and the 
 
people stood in their place. 
8  So they read in the book in the law of God distinctly, and gave the 
sense, and caused them to understand the reading. 
9  ¶ And Nehemiah, which is the Tirshatha, and Ezra the priest the 
scribe, and the Levites that taught the people, said unto all the 
people, This day is holy unto the Lord your God; mourn not, nor 
 
weep. For all the people wept, when they heard the words of the 
law. 
10  Then he said unto them, Go your way, eat the fat, and drink the 
sweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared: 
 
for this day is holy unto our Lord: neither be ye sorry; for the joy of 
   
the Lord is your strength. 
11  So the Levites stilled all the people, saying, Hold your peace, for 
the day is holy; neither be ye grieved. 
 
12  And all the people went their way to eat, and to drink, and to send 
portions, and to make great mirth, because they had understood 
the words that were declared unto them. 
13  ¶ And on the second day were gathered together the chief of the 
fathers of all the people, the priests, and the Levites, unto Ezra the 
scribe, even to understand the words of the law. 
14  And they found written in the law which the Lord had 
commanded by Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in 
booths in the feast of the seventh month: 
 
15  and that they should publish and proclaim in all their cities, and in 
Jerusalem, saying, Go forth unto the mount, and fetch olive 
branches, and pine branches, and myrtle branches, and palm 
branches, and branches of thick trees, to make booths, as it is 
written.  
16  So the people went forth, and brought them, and made themselves 
booths, every one upon the roof of his house, and in their courts, 