  679    1 Samuel 25 
7  And now I have heard that thou hast shearers: now thy shepherds 
 
which were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there aught 
missing unto them, all the while they were in Carmel. 
8  Ask thy young men, and they will show thee. Wherefore let the 
young men find favor in thine eyes; for we come in a good day: 
   
give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thine hand unto thy 
servants, and to thy son David. 
9  ¶ And when David’s young men came, they spake to Nabal 
according to all those words in the name of David, and ceased. 
10  And Nabal answered David’s servants, and said, Who is David? and 
 
who is the son of Jesse? there be many servants nowadays that 
 
break away every man from his master. 
11  Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and my flesh that I have 
killed for my shearers, and give it unto men, whom I know not 
whence they be? 
 
12  So David’s young men turned their way, and went again, and came 
and told him all those sayings. 
13  And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword. And 
they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded on his 
 
sword: and there went up after David about four hundred men; and 
   
two hundred abode by the stuff. 
14  ¶ But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal’s wife, saying, 
Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our 
master; and he railed on them. 
 
15  But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither 
missed we any thing, as long as we were conversant with them, 
when we were in the fields. 
16  They were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we 
were with them keeping the sheep. 
17  Now therefore know and consider what thou wilt do; for evil is 
 
determined against our master, and against all his household: for 
 
he is such a son of Belial, that a man cannot speak to him. 
18  ¶ Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two 
bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of 