  934    1 Chronicles 12 
12  Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth, 
13  Jeremiah the tenth, Machbanai the eleventh. 
14  These were of the sons of Gad, captains of the host: one of the least 
 
was over a hundred, and the greatest over a thousand. 
15  These are they that went over Jordan in the first month, when it 
had overflown all his banks; and they put to flight all them of the 
 
valleys, both toward the east, and toward the west. 
16  ¶ And there came of the children of Benjamin and Judah to the 
hold unto David. 
17  And David went out to meet them, and answered and said unto 
them, If ye be come peaceably unto me to help me, mine heart shall 
be knit unto you: but if ye be come to betray me to mine enemies, 
 
seeing there is no wrong in mine hands, the God of our fathers look 
thereon, and rebuke it. 
18  Then the spirit came upon Amasai, who was chief of the captains, 
and he said, Thine are we, David, and on thy side, thou son of Jesse: 
 
peace, peace be unto thee, and peace be to thine helpers; for thy God 
 
helpeth thee. Then David received them, and made them captains 
of the band. 
19  ¶ And there fell some of Manasseh to David, when he came with the 
Philistines against Saul to battle; but they helped them not: for the 
   
lords of the Philistines upon advisement sent him away, saying, He 
will fall to his master Saul to the jeopardy of our heads. 
20  As he went to Ziklag, there fell to him of Manasseh, Adnah, and 
Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and 
Zilthai, captains of the thousands that were of Manasseh. 
21  And they helped David against the band of the rovers: for they were 
 
all mighty men of valor, and were captains in the host. 
22  For at that time day by day there came to David to help him, until it 
was a great host, like the host of God. 
23  ¶ And these are the numbers of the bands that were ready armed to 
the war, and came to David to Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul 
to him, according to the word of the Lord. 
24  The children of Judah that bare shield and spear were six thousand 
and eight hundred, ready armed to the war. 