  1629    Jeremiah 8 
8 
1  At that time, saith the Lord, they shall bring out the bones of the 
kings of Judah, and the bones of his princes, and the bones of the 
priests, and the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the 
inhabitants of Jerusalem, out of their graves: 
 
2  and they shall spread them before the sun, and the moon, and all 
the host of heaven, whom they have loved, and whom they have 
served, and after whom they have walked, and whom they have 
sought, and whom they have worshipped: they shall not be 
 
gathered, nor be buried; they shall be for dung upon the face of the 
 
earth. 
3  And death shall be chosen rather than life by all the residue of them 
that remain of this evil family, which remain in all the places 
whither I have driven them, saith the Lord of hosts. 
4  ¶ Moreover thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the Lord; Shall 
 
they fall, and not arise? shall he turn away, and not return? 
   
5  Why then is this people of Jerusalem slidden back by a perpetual 
backsliding? they hold fast deceit, they refuse to return. 
 
6  I hearkened and heard, but they spake not aright: no man repented 
 
him of his wickedness, saying, What have I done? every one turned 
 
to his course, as the horse rusheth into the battle. 
7  Yea, the stork in the heaven knoweth her appointed times; and the 
 
turtle and the crane and the swallow observe the time of their 
coming; but my people know not the judgment of the Lord. 
 
8  ¶ How do ye say, We are wise, and the law of the Lord is with us? 
 
Lo, certainly in vain made he it; the pen of the scribes is in vain. 
 
9  The wise men are ashamed, they are dismayed and taken: lo, they 
 
have rejected the word of the Lord; and what wisdom is in them? 
   
10  Therefore will I give their wives unto others, and their fields to 
them that shall inherit them: for every one from the least even unto 
 
the greatest is given to covetousness, from the prophet even unto 
the priest every one dealeth falsely. 
11  For they have healed the hurt of the daughter of my people slightly, 
saying, Peace, peace; when there is no peace.  
 