  577    Judges 9 
threescore and ten persons, reign over you, or that one reign over 
you? remember also that I am your bone and your flesh. 
 
3  And his mother’s brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men 
of Shechem all these words: and their hearts inclined to follow 
 
Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother. 
 
4  And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver out of the 
house of Baal-berith, wherewith Abimelech hired vain and light 
persons, which followed him. 
5  And he went unto his father’s house at Ophrah, and slew his 
brethren the sons of Jerubbaal, being threescore and ten persons, 
upon one stone: notwithstanding, yet Jotham the youngest son of 
 
Jerubbaal was left; for he hid himself. 
 
6  And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of 
Millo, and went and made Abimelech king, by the plain of the 
pillar that was in Shechem. 
7  ¶ And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood in the top of 
mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto 
them, Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may 
hearken unto you. 
8  The trees went forth on a time to anoint a king over them; and they 
 
said unto the olive tree, Reign thou over us. 
9  But the olive tree said unto them, Should I leave my fatness, 
wherewith by me they honor God and man, and go to be promoted 
over the trees? 
 
10  And the trees said to the fig tree, Come thou, and reign over us. 
11  But the fig tree said unto them, Should I forsake my sweetness, and 
my good fruit, and go to be promoted over the trees? 
 
12  Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou, and reign over us. 
13  And the vine said unto them, Should I leave my wine, which 
cheereth God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees? 
 
14  Then said all the trees unto the bramble, Come thou, and reign over 
us. 
15  And the bramble said unto the trees, If in truth ye anoint me king 
over you, then come and put your trust in my shadow; and if not, let 
 
fire come out of the bramble, and devour the cedars of Lebanon. 