  98    Genesis 41 
2  And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well-favored kine 
and fat-fleshed; and they fed in a meadow. 
 
3  And, behold, seven other kine came up after them out of the river, 
ill-favored and lean-fleshed; and stood by the other kine upon the 
 
brink of the river. 
4  And the ill-favored and lean-fleshed kine did eat up the seven well-
favored and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke. 
5  And he slept and dreamed the second time: and, behold, seven ears 
 
of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good. 
6  And, behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind sprung 
up after them. 
7  And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears. And 
Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, it was a dream. 
8  And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled; and 
 
he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the wise 
men thereof: and Pharaoh told them his dream; but there was none 
   
that could interpret them unto Pharaoh. 
9  ¶ Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember 
my faults this day: 
 
10  Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put me in ward in the 
captain of the guard’s house, both me and the chief baker: 
 
11  and we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; we dreamed each 
 
man according to the interpretation of his dream. 
12  And there was there with us a young man, a Hebrew, servant to the 
captain of the guard; and we told him, and he interpreted to us our 
 
dreams; to each man according to his dream he did interpret. 
 
13  And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was; me he 
 
restored unto mine office, and him he hanged. 
14  ¶ Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him 
hastily out of the dungeon: and he shaved himself, and changed his 
 
raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh. 
15  And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is 
none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thou 
 
canst understand a dream to interpret it. 