  1678    Jeremiah 30 
10  Therefore fear thou not, O my servant Jacob, saith the Lord; 
 
neither be dismayed, O Israel: for, lo, I will save thee from afar, and 
 
thy seed from the land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return, 
 
and shall be in rest, and be quiet, and none shall make him afraid. 
11  For I am with thee, saith the Lord, to save thee: though I make a 
 
full end of all nations whither I have scattered thee, yet will I not 
make a full end of thee; but I will correct thee in measure, and will 
 
not leave thee altogether unpunished.  
12  ¶ For thus saith the Lord, Thy bruise is incurable, and thy wound is 
grievous. 
13  There is none to plead thy cause, that thou mayest be bound up: 
 
thou hast no healing medicines. 
14  All thy lovers have forgotten thee; they seek thee not; for I have 
   
wounded thee with the wound of an enemy, with the chastisement 
of a cruel one, for the multitude of thine iniquity; because thy sins 
 
were increased. 
15  Why criest thou for thine affliction? thy sorrow is incurable for the 
 
multitude of thine iniquity: because thy sins were increased, I have 
 
done these things unto thee. 
16  Therefore all they that devour thee shall be devoured; and all thine 
 
adversaries, every one of them, shall go into captivity; and they 
 
that spoil thee shall be a spoil, and all that prey upon thee will I 
give for a prey. 
17  For I will restore health unto thee, and I will heal thee of thy 
wounds, saith the Lord; because they called thee an Outcast, 
 
saying, This is Zion, whom no man seeketh after. 
18  ¶ Thus saith the Lord; Behold, I will bring again the captivity of 
 
Jacob’s tents, and have mercy on his dwelling places; and the city 
 
shall be builded upon her own heap, and the palace shall remain 
after the manner thereof. 
19  And out of them shall proceed thanksgiving and the voice of them 
that make merry: and I will multiply them, and they shall not be 
 
few; I will also glorify them, and they shall not be small. 
 