  789    1 Kings 9 
12  And Hiram came out from Tyre to see the cities which Solomon 
had given him; and they pleased him not. 
 
13  And he said, What cities are these which thou hast given me, my 
brother? And he called them the land of Cabul unto this day. 
 
14  And Hiram sent to the king sixscore talents of gold. 
15  ¶ And this is the reason of the levy which king Solomon raised; for 
 
to build the house of the Lord, and his own house, and Millo, and 
the wall of Jerusalem, and Hazor, and Megiddo, and Gezer. 
16  For Pharaoh king of Egypt had gone up, and taken Gezer, and burnt 
it with fire, and slain the Canaanites that dwelt in the city, and 
given it for a present unto his daughter, Solomon’s wife. 
17  And Solomon built Gezer, and Beth-horon the nether. 
18  And Baalath, and Tadmor in the wilderness, in the land, 
19  and all the cities of store that Solomon had, and cities for his 
chariots, and cities for his horsemen, and that which Solomon 
desired to build in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land of 
his dominion. 
20  And all the people that were left of the Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, 
Hivites, and Jebusites, which were not of the children of Israel, 
21  their children that were left after them in the land, whom the 
children of Israel also were not able utterly to destroy, upon those 
did Solomon levy a tribute of bondservice unto this day. 
22  But of the children of Israel did Solomon make no bondmen: but 
 
they were men of war, and his servants, and his princes, and his 
captains, and rulers of his chariots, and his horsemen. 
23  ¶ These were the chief of the officers that were over Solomon’s 
work, five hundred and fifty, which bare rule over the people that 
wrought in the work. 
24  ¶ But Pharaoh’s daughter came up out of the city of David unto her 
house which Solomon had built for her: then did he build Millo. 
 
25  ¶ And three times in a year did Solomon offer burnt offerings and 
peace offerings upon the altar which he built unto the Lord, and 
he burnt incense upon the altar that was before the Lord. So he 
finished the house. 