  1875    Daniel 2 
34  Thou sawest till that a stone was cut out without hands, which 
smote the image upon his feet that were of iron and clay, and brake 
them to pieces. 
35  Then was the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold, 
broken to pieces together, and became like the chaff of the summer 
threshingfloors; and the wind carried them away, that no place was 
 
found for them: and the stone that smote the image became a great 
 
mountain, and filled the whole earth. 
36  ¶ This is the dream; and we will tell the interpretation thereof 
 
before the king. 
37  Thou, O king, art a king of kings: for the God of heaven hath given 
 
thee a kingdom, power, and strength, and glory. 
38  And wheresoever the children of men dwell, the beasts of the field 
and the fowls of the heaven hath he given into thine hand, and 
hath made thee ruler over them all. Thou art this head of gold. 
39  And after thee shall arise another kingdom inferior to thee, and 
another third kingdom of brass, which shall bear rule over all the 
earth. 
40  And the fourth kingdom shall be strong as iron: forasmuch as iron 
 
breaketh in pieces and subdueth all things: and as iron that breaketh 
 
all these, shall it break in pieces and bruise. 
41  And whereas thou sawest the feet and toes, part of potters’ clay, and 
part of iron, the kingdom shall be divided; but there shall be in it of 
 
the strength of the iron, forasmuch as thou sawest the iron mixed 
with miry clay. 
42  And as the toes of the feet were part of iron, and part of clay, so the 
kingdom shall be partly strong, and partly broken. 
43  And whereas thou sawest iron mixed with miry clay, they shall 
mingle themselves with the seed of men: but they shall not cleave 
 
one to another, even as iron is not mixed with clay. 
44  And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a 
kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall 
 
not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume 
all these kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever. 