  1732    Jeremiah 51 
24  And I will render unto Babylon and to all the inhabitants of 
Chaldea all their evil that they have done in Zion in your sight, 
saith the Lord. 
25  ¶ Behold, I am against thee, O destroying mountain, saith the 
Lord, which destroyest all the earth: and I will stretch out mine 
 
hand upon thee, and roll thee down from the rocks, and will make 
thee a burnt mountain. 
26  And they shall not take of thee a stone for a corner, nor a stone for 
foundations; but thou shalt be desolate for ever, saith the Lord. 
 
27  ¶ Set ye up a standard in the land, blow the trumpet among the 
nations, prepare the nations against her, call together against her 
the kingdoms of Ararat, Minni, and Ashchenaz; appoint a captain 
 
against her; cause the horses to come up as the rough caterpillars. 
 
28  Prepare against her the nations with the kings of the Medes, the 
captains thereof, and all the rulers thereof, and all the land of his 
dominion. 
29  And the land shall tremble and sorrow: for every purpose of the 
 
Lord shall be performed against Babylon, to make the land of 
Babylon a desolation without an inhabitant. 
30  The mighty men of Babylon have forborne to fight, they have 
remained in their holds: their might hath failed; they became as 
   
women: they have burned her dwelling places; her bars are broken. 
   
31  One post shall run to meet another, and one messenger to meet 
another, to show the king of Babylon that his city is taken at one 
end, 
32  and that the passages are stopped, and the reeds they have burned 
with fire, and the men of war are affrighted. 
33  For thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel; The daughter of 
 
Babylon is like a threshingfloor, it is time to thresh her: yet a little 
 
while, and the time of her harvest shall come. 
34  ¶ Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon hath devoured me, he hath 
crushed me, he hath made me an empty vessel, he hath swallowed 
me up like a dragon, he hath filled his belly with my delicates, he 
hath cast me out. 