  2569    Hebrews 11 
22  By faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of 
the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his 
 
bones.  
23  ¶ By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his 
parents, because they saw he was a proper child; and they were not 
 
afraid of the king’s commandment.  
24  By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the 
son of Pharaoh’s daughter;  
 
25  choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God, than to 
enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season; 
 
26  esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures 
in Egypt: for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. 
 
27  By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king: for he 
 
endured, as seeing him who is invisible. 
28  Through faith he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of blood, 
lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them.  
29  ¶ By faith they passed through the Red sea as by dry land: which the 
 
Egyptians assaying to do were drowned.  
30  By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were compassed 
about seven days.  
31  By faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed 
not, when she had received the spies with peace.  
32  ¶ And what shall I more say? for the time would fail me to tell of 
 
Gideon, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthah; of David 
 
also, and Samuel, and of the prophets: 
 
33  who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, 
obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions,  
34  quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of 
weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight 
the armies of the aliens. 
35  Women received their dead raised to life again: and others were 
 
tortured, not accepting deliverance; that they might obtain a better 
 
resurrection: 
 
36  and others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, 
moreover of bonds and imprisonment:  
 