  1801    Ezekiel 22 
15  And I will scatter thee among the heathen, and disperse thee in the 
countries, and will consume thy filthiness out of thee. 
16  And thou shalt take thine inheritance in thyself in the sight of the 
heathen, and thou shalt know that I am the Lord. 
17  ¶ And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, 
18  Son of man, the house of Israel is to me become dross: all they are 
 
brass, and tin, and iron, and lead, in the midst of the furnace; they 
 
are even the dross of silver. 
19  Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Because ye are all become 
 
dross, behold, therefore I will gather you into the midst of 
Jerusalem. 
20  As they gather silver, and brass, and iron, and lead, and tin, into the 
midst of the furnace, to blow the fire upon it, to melt it; so will I 
 
gather you in mine anger and in my fury, and I will leave you there, 
and melt you. 
21  Yea, I will gather you, and blow upon you in the fire of my wrath, 
and ye shall be melted in the midst thereof. 
22  As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so shall ye be melted 
in the midst thereof; and ye shall know that I the Lord have 
 
poured out my fury upon you. 
23  ¶ And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, 
24  Son of man, say unto her, Thou art the land that is not cleansed, 
nor rained upon in the day of indignation. 
25  There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof, like a 
roaring lion ravening the prey: they have devoured souls; they have 
   
taken the treasure and precious things; they have made her many 
 
widows in the midst thereof. 
26  Her priests have violated my law, and have profaned mine holy 
things: they have put no difference between the holy and profane, 
 
neither have they showed difference between the unclean and the 
clean, and have hid their eyes from my sabbaths, and I am profaned 
among them. 
27  Her princes in the midst thereof are like wolves ravening the prey, 
to shed blood, and to destroy souls, to get dishonest gain. 