  1667    Jeremiah 25 
27  ¶ Therefore thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the Lord of 
hosts, the God of Israel; Drink ye, and be drunken, and spew, and 
 
fall, and rise no more, because of the sword which I will send 
among you. 
28  And it shall be, if they refuse to take the cup at thine hand to drink, 
then shalt thou say unto them, Thus saith the Lord of hosts; Ye 
 
shall certainly drink. 
29  For, lo, I begin to bring evil on the city which is called by my name, 
and should ye be utterly unpunished? Ye shall not be unpunished: 
   
for I will call for a sword upon all the inhabitants of the earth, saith 
the Lord of hosts. 
30  ¶ Therefore prophesy thou against them all these words, and say 
unto them, The Lord shall roar from on high, and utter his voice 
from his holy habitation; he shall mightily roar upon his 
 
habitation; he shall give a shout, as they that tread the grapes, 
 
against all the inhabitants of the earth. 
31  A noise shall come even to the ends of the earth; for the Lord hath 
 
a controversy with the nations: he will plead with all flesh; he will 
   
give them that are wicked to the sword, saith the Lord. 
32  ¶ Thus saith the Lord of hosts, Behold, evil shall go forth from 
nation to nation, and a great whirlwind shall be raised up from the 
coasts of the earth. 
33  And the slain of the Lord shall be at that day from one end of the 
earth even unto the other end of the earth: they shall not be 
 
lamented, neither gathered, nor buried; they shall be dung upon 
 
the ground. 
34  Howl, ye shepherds, and cry; and wallow yourselves in the ashes, ye 
 
principal of the flock: for the days of your slaughter and of your 
 
dispersions are accomplished; and ye shall fall like a pleasant vessel. 
 
35  And the shepherds shall have no way to flee, nor the principal of 
the flock to escape. 
36  A voice of the cry of the shepherds, and a howling of the principal 
of the flock, shall be heard: for the Lord hath spoiled their pasture. 
 
37  And the peaceable habitations are cut down because of the fierce 
anger of the Lord. 