  1643    Jeremiah 14 
consume them by the sword, and by the famine, and by the 
pestilence. 
13  ¶ Then said I, Ah, Lord God! behold, the prophets say unto them, 
 
Ye shall not see the sword, neither shall ye have famine; but I will 
 
give you assured peace in this place. 
14  Then the Lord said unto me, the prophets prophesy lies in my 
name: I sent them not, neither have I commanded them, neither 
 
spake unto them: they prophesy unto you a false vision and 
 
divination, and a thing of nought, and the deceit of their heart. 
15  Therefore thus saith the Lord concerning the prophets that 
prophesy in my name, and I sent them not, yet they say, Sword and 
famine shall not be in this land; By sword and famine shall those 
 
prophets be consumed. 
16  And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the 
streets of Jerusalem, because of the famine and the sword; and they 
 
shall have none to bury them, them, their wives, nor their sons, 
nor their daughters: for I will pour their wickedness upon them. 
 
17  ¶ Therefore thou shalt say this word unto them; Let mine eyes run 
 
down with tears night and day, and let them not cease: for the 
 
virgin daughter of my people is broken with a great breach, with a 
very grievous blow. 
18  If I go forth into the field, then behold the slain with the sword! 
 
and if I enter into the city, then behold them that are sick with 
famine! yea, both the prophet and the priest go about into a land 
 
that they know not. 
19  ¶ Hast thou utterly rejected Judah? hath thy soul loathed Zion? 
   
why hast thou smitten us, and there is no healing for us? we looked 
 
for peace, and there is no good; and for the time of healing, and 
 
behold trouble! 
 
20  We acknowledge, O Lord, our wickedness, and the iniquity of our 
fathers: for we have sinned against thee. 
 
21  Do not abhor us, for thy name’s sake; do not disgrace the throne of 
 
thy glory: remember, break not thy covenant with us. 
 
22  Are there any among the vanities of the Gentiles that can cause 
rain? or can the heavens give showers? Art not thou he, O Lord 
   