  158    Exodus 14 
19  ¶ And the angel of God, which went before the camp of Israel, 
removed and went behind them; and the pillar of the cloud went 
 
from before their face, and stood behind them: 
 
20  and it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of 
Israel; and it was a cloud and darkness to them, but it gave light by 
 
night to these: so that the one came not near the other all the night. 
 
21  ¶ And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the Lord 
 
caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night, and 
made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided. 
22  And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the 
dry ground: and the waters were a wall unto them on their right 
 
hand, and on their left. 
23  And the Egyptians pursued, and went in after them to the midst of 
the sea, even all Pharaoh’s horses, his chariots, and his horsemen. 
24  And it came to pass, that in the morning watch the Lord looked 
unto the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of the 
cloud, and troubled the host of the Egyptians, 
25  and took off their chariot wheels, that they drave them heavily: so 
 
that the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel; for the 
 
Lord fighteth for them against the Egyptians. 
26  ¶ And the Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the 
sea, that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians, upon 
their chariots, and upon their horsemen. 
27  And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea 
returned to his strength when the morning appeared; and the 
 
Egyptians fled against it; and the Lord overthrew the Egyptians in 
 
the midst of the sea. 
28  And the waters returned, and covered the chariots, and the 
horsemen, and all the host of Pharaoh that came into the sea after 
them; there remained not so much as one of them. 
 
29  But the children of Israel walked upon dry land in the midst of the 
sea; and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, and 
 
on their left. 
30  ¶ Thus the Lord saved Israel that day out of the hand of the 
Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the seashore. 
 