  1028    2 Chronicles 28 
2  for he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, and made also 
molten images for Baalim. 
3  Moreover he burnt incense in the valley of the son of Hinnom, and 
burnt his children in the fire, after the abominations of the 
heathen whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel. 
4  He sacrificed also and burnt incense in the high places, and on the 
hills, and under every green tree. 
5  ¶ Wherefore the Lord his God delivered him into the hand of the 
king of Syria; and they smote him, and carried away a great 
 
multitude of them captives, and brought them to Damascus. And he 
was also delivered into the hand of the king of Israel, who smote 
him with a great slaughter. 
6  For Pekah the son of Remaliah slew in Judah a hundred and twenty 
thousand in one day, which were all valiant men; because they had 
 
forsaken the Lord God of their fathers.  
7  And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, slew Maaseiah the king’s 
son, and Azrikam the governor of the house, and Elkanah that was 
next to the king. 
8  ¶ And the children of Israel carried away captive of their brethren 
two hundred thousand, women, sons, and daughters, and took also 
away much spoil from them, and brought the spoil to Samaria. 
9  But a prophet of the Lord was there, whose name was Oded: and 
 
he went out before the host that came to Samaria, and said unto 
them, Behold, because the Lord God of your fathers was wroth 
with Judah, he hath delivered them into your hand, and ye have 
slain them in a rage that reacheth up unto heaven. 
10  And now ye purpose to keep under the children of Judah and 
Jerusalem for bondmen and bondwomen unto you: but are there not 
 
with you, even with you, sins against the Lord your God? 
 
11  Now hear me therefore, and deliver the captives again, which ye 
have taken captive of your brethren: for the fierce wrath of the 
 
Lord is upon you. 
12  Then certain of the heads of the children of Ephraim, Azariah the 
son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, and Jehizkiah 