  1835    Ezekiel 36 
more, neither shalt thou cause thy nations to fall any more, saith 
the Lord God. 
16  ¶ Moreover the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, 
17  Son of man, when the house of Israel dwelt in their own land, they 
defiled it by their own way and by their doings: their way was 
 
before me as the uncleanness of a removed woman. 
18  Wherefore I poured my fury upon them for the blood that they had 
shed upon the land, and for their idols wherewith they had polluted 
it: 
 
19  and I scattered them among the heathen, and they were dispersed 
through the countries: according to their way and according to 
 
their doings I judged them. 
20  And when they entered unto the heathen, whither they went, they 
profaned my holy name, when they said to them, These are the 
people of the Lord, and are gone forth out of his land. 
21  But I had pity for mine holy name, which the house of Israel had 
profaned among the heathen, whither they went. 
22  ¶ Therefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord God; 
 
I do not this for your sakes, O house of Israel, but for mine holy 
name’s sake, which ye have profaned among the heathen, whither 
ye went. 
23  And I will sanctify my great name, which was profaned among the 
heathen, which ye have profaned in the midst of them; and the 
 
heathen shall know that I am the Lord, saith the Lord God, when 
I shall be sanctified in you before their eyes. 
24  For I will take you from among the heathen, and gather you out of 
all countries, and will bring you into your own land. 
25  Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be clean: 
 
from all your filthiness, and from all your idols, will I cleanse you. 
26  A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within 
you: and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I 
 
will give you a heart of flesh. 
27  And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my 
statutes, and ye shall keep my judgments, and do them. 