  272    Leviticus 18 
15  Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy daughter-in-law: she 
 
is thy son’s wife; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.  
 
16  Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy brother’s wife: it is thy 
 
brother’s nakedness.  
17  Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her 
daughter, neither shalt thou take her son’s daughter, or her 
daughter’s daughter, to uncover her nakedness; for they are her 
 
near kinswomen: it is wickedness.  
 
18  Neither shalt thou take a wife to her sister, to vex her, to uncover 
her nakedness, besides the other in her life time. 
19  ¶ Also thou shalt not approach unto a woman to uncover her 
nakedness, as long as she is put apart for her uncleanness.  
20  Moreover thou shalt not lie carnally with thy neighbor’s wife, to 
defile thyself with her.  
21  And thou shalt not let any of thy seed pass through the fire to 
Molech, neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God: I am the 
 
Lord. 
22  Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is 
 
abomination.  
23  Neither shalt thou lie with any beast to defile thyself therewith: 
 
neither shall any woman stand before a beast to lie down thereto: it 
 
is confusion.  
24  ¶ Defile not ye yourselves in any of these things: for in all these the 
 
nations are defiled which I cast out before you: 
 
25  and the land is defiled: therefore I do visit the iniquity thereof 
 
upon it, and the land itself vomiteth out her inhabitants. 
26  Ye shall therefore keep my statutes and my judgments, and shall 
not commit any of these abominations; neither any of your own 
 
nation, nor any stranger that sojourneth among you: 
 
27  (for all these abominations have the men of the land done, which 
were before you, and the land is defiled;) 
 
28  that the land spew not you out also, when ye defile it, as it spewed 
out the nations that were before you. 
29  For whosoever shall commit any of these abominations, even the 
souls that commit them shall be cut off from among their people. 