  1882    Daniel 4 
shall pass over thee, till thou know that the Most High ruleth in 
the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will. 
26  And whereas they commanded to leave the stump of the tree roots; 
 
thy kingdom shall be sure unto thee, after that thou shalt have 
known that the heavens do rule. 
27  Wherefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable unto thee, and 
break off thy sins by righteousness, and thine iniquities by showing 
mercy to the poor; if it may be a lengthening of thy tranquillity. 
 
28  ¶ All this came upon the king Nebuchadnezzar. 
29  At the end of twelve months he walked in the palace of the 
kingdom of Babylon. 
30  The king spake, and said, Is not this great Babylon, that I have built 
for the house of the kingdom by the might of my power, and for the 
honor of my majesty? 
 
31  While the word was in the king’s mouth, there fell a voice from 
heaven, saying, O king Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken; The 
 
kingdom is departed from thee. 
32  And they shall drive thee from men, and thy dwelling shall be with 
the beasts of the field: they shall make thee to eat grass as oxen, and 
 
seven times shall pass over thee, until thou know that the Most 
High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever 
he will. 
33  The same hour was the thing fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar: and 
 
he was driven from men, and did eat grass as oxen, and his body 
was wet with the dew of heaven, till his hairs were grown like 
eagles’ feathers, and his nails like birds’ claws. 
34  ¶ And at the end of the days I Nebuchadnezzar lifted up mine eyes 
unto heaven, and mine understanding returned unto me, and I 
blessed the Most High, and I praised and honored him that liveth 
for ever, whose dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his 
kingdom is from generation to generation: 
 
35  and all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing: and he 
 
doeth according to his will in the army of heaven, and among the 
inhabitants of the earth: and none can stay his hand, or say unto 
 
him, What doest thou? 
 