  829    1 Kings 22 
20  And the Lord said, Who shall persuade Ahab, that he may go up 
and fall at Ramoth-gilead? And one said on this manner, and 
 
another said on that manner. 
21  And there came forth a spirit, and stood before the Lord, and said, 
I will persuade him. 
22  And the Lord said unto him, Wherewith? And he said, I will go 
 
forth, and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. 
And he said, Thou shalt persuade him, and prevail also: go forth, 
 
and do so. 
23  Now therefore, behold, the Lord hath put a lying spirit in the 
mouth of all these thy prophets, and the Lord hath spoken evil 
concerning thee. 
24  ¶ But Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah went near, and smote 
Micaiah on the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the 
Lord from me to speak unto thee? 
 
25  And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see in that day, when thou 
shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself. 
26  And the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah, and carry him back unto 
Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king’s son; 
 
27  and say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed 
him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I 
come in peace. 
28  And Micaiah said, If thou return at all in peace, the Lord hath not 
spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, O people, every one of you. 
29  ¶ So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up 
to Ramoth-gilead. 
30  And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself, 
and enter into the battle; but put thou on thy robes. And the king 
 
of Israel disguised himself, and went into the battle. 
31  But the king of Syria commanded his thirty and two captains that 
had rule over his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor 
great, save only with the king of Israel. 
32  And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw 
Jehoshaphat, that they said, Surely it is the king of Israel. And they 
turned aside to fight against him: and Jehoshaphat cried out. 
 