  1505    Isaiah 7 
13  And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David; Is it a small thing for 
 
you to weary men, but will ye weary my God also? 
 
14  Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin 
 
shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.  
15  Butter and honey shall he eat, that he may know to refuse the evil, 
and choose the good. 
16  For before the child shall know to refuse the evil, and choose the 
good, the land that thou abhorrest shall be forsaken of both her 
kings. 
17  The Lord shall bring upon thee, and upon thy people, and upon 
thy father’s house, days that have not come, from the day that 
Ephraim departed from Judah; even the king of Assyria. 
 
18  ¶ And it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall hiss for 
the fly that is in the uttermost part of the rivers of Egypt, and for 
the bee that is in the land of Assyria. 
19  And they shall come, and shall rest all of them in the desolate 
valleys, and in the holes of the rocks, and upon all thorns, and upon 
all bushes. 
20  ¶ In the same day shall the Lord shave with a razor that is hired, 
namely, by them beyond the river, by the king of Assyria, the head, 
and the hair of the feet: and it shall also consume the beard. 
 
21  ¶ And it shall come to pass in that day, that a man shall nourish a 
young cow and two sheep; 
 
22  and it shall come to pass, for the abundance of milk that they shall 
give, he shall eat butter: for butter and honey shall every one eat 
 
that is left in the land. 
23  ¶ And it shall come to pass in that day, that every place shall be, 
where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silverlings, it shall 
even be for briers and thorns. 
24  With arrows and with bows shall men come thither; because all the 
 
land shall become briers and thorns. 
25  And on all hills that shall be digged with the mattock, there shall 
not come thither the fear of briers and thorns: but it shall be for the 
 
sending forth of oxen, and for the treading of lesser cattle. 