  242    Leviticus 7 
25  For whosoever eateth the fat of the beast, of which men offer an 
offering made by fire unto the Lord, even the soul that eateth it 
shall be cut off from his people. 
26  Moreover ye shall eat no manner of blood, whether it be of fowl or of 
beast, in any of your dwellings. 
27  Whatsoever soul it be that eateth any manner of blood, even that 
soul shall be cut off from his people.  
28  ¶ And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, 
29  Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, He that offereth the 
sacrifice of his peace offerings unto the Lord, shall bring his 
oblation unto the Lord of the sacrifice of his peace offerings. 
30  His own hands shall bring the offerings of the Lord made by fire, 
the fat with the breast; it shall he bring, that the breast may be 
 
waved for a wave offering before the Lord. 
31  And the priest shall burn the fat upon the altar: but the breast shall 
 
be Aaron’s and his sons’. 
32  And the right shoulder shall ye give unto the priest for a heave 
offering of the sacrifices of your peace offerings. 
33  He among the sons of Aaron, that offereth the blood of the peace 
offerings, and the fat, shall have the right shoulder for his part. 
34  For the wave breast and the heave shoulder have I taken of the 
children of Israel from off the sacrifices of their peace offerings, and 
have given them unto Aaron the priest and unto his sons, by a 
statute for ever, from among the children of Israel. 
35  This is the portion of the anointing of Aaron, and of the anointing of 
his sons, out of the offerings of the Lord made by fire, in the day 
when he presented them to minister unto the Lord in the priest’s 
office; 
 
36  which the Lord commanded to be given them of the children of 
Israel, in the day that he anointed them, by a statute for ever 
throughout their generations. 
37  ¶ This is the law of the burnt offering, of the meat offering, and of 
the sin offering, and of the trespass offering, and of the 
consecrations, and of the sacrifice of the peace offerings; 
 