  245    Leviticus 8 
upon the great toes of their right feet: and Moses sprinkled the 
 
blood upon the altar round about. 
25  And he took the fat, and the rump, and all the fat that was upon the 
inwards, and the caul above the liver, and the two kidneys, and their 
fat, and the right shoulder: 
 
26  and out of the basket of unleavened bread, that was before the 
Lord, he took one unleavened cake, and a cake of oiled bread, and 
one wafer, and put them on the fat, and upon the right shoulder: 
 
27  and he put all upon Aaron’s hands, and upon his sons’ hands, and 
waved them for a wave offering before the Lord. 
28  And Moses took them from off their hands, and burnt them on the 
altar upon the burnt offering: they were consecrations for a sweet 
 
savor: it is an offering made by fire unto the Lord. 
 
29  And Moses took the breast, and waved it for a wave offering before 
the Lord: for of the ram of consecration it was Moses’ part; as the 
   
Lord commanded Moses. 
30  ¶ And Moses took of the anointing oil, and of the blood which was 
upon the altar, and sprinkled it upon Aaron, and upon his 
garments, and upon his sons, and upon his sons’ garments with 
him; and sanctified Aaron, and his garments, and his sons, and his 
 
sons’ garments with him. 
31  ¶ And Moses said unto Aaron and to his sons, Boil the flesh at the 
door of the tabernacle of the congregation; and there eat it with the 
 
bread that is in the basket of consecrations, as I commanded, 
saying, Aaron and his sons shall eat it. 
32  And that which remaineth of the flesh and of the bread shall ye 
burn with fire. 
33  And ye shall not go out of the door of the tabernacle of the 
congregation in seven days, until the days of your consecration be at 
an end: for seven days shall he consecrate you. 
 
34  As he hath done this day, so the Lord hath commanded to do, to 
make an atonement for you. 
35  Therefore shall ye abide at the door of the tabernacle of the 
congregation day and night seven days, and keep the charge of the 
Lord, that ye die not: for so I am commanded. 
 