  665    1 Samuel 19 
because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have 
been to thee-ward very good: 
 
5  for he did put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and the 
Lord wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou sawest it, and 
 
didst rejoice: wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, 
 
to slay David without a cause? 
 
6  And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, As 
 
the Lord liveth, he shall not be slain. 
7  And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all those 
things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his 
presence, as in times past. 
8  ¶ And there was war again: and David went out, and fought with 
 
the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled 
 
from him. 
9  And the evil spirit from the Lord was upon Saul, as he sat in his 
house with his javelin in his hand: and David played with his hand. 
 
10  And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin; 
 
but he slipped away out of Saul’s presence, and he smote the javelin 
into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night. 
 
11  ¶ Saul also sent messengers unto David’s house, to watch him, and 
to slay him in the morning: and Michal David’s wife told him, 
 
saying, If thou save not thy life tonight, tomorrow thou shalt be 
slain. 
12  So Michal let David down through a window: and he went, and 
 
fled, and escaped. 
13  And Michal took an image, and laid it in the bed, and put a pillow 
of goats’ hair for his bolster, and covered it with a cloth. 
14  And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He is sick. 
15  And Saul sent the messengers again to see David, saying, Bring him 
up to me in the bed, that I may slay him. 
16  And when the messengers were come in, behold, there was an image 
in the bed, with a pillow of goats’ hair for his bolster. 
17  And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me so, and sent 
away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal answered Saul, 
 
He said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee? 
   