  861    2 Kings 11 
3  And he was with her hid in the house of the Lord six years. And 
Athaliah did reign over the land. 
4  ¶ And the seventh year Jehoiada sent and fetched the rulers over 
hundreds, with the captains and the guard, and brought them to 
him into the house of the Lord, and made a covenant with them, 
and took an oath of them in the house of the Lord, and showed 
them the king’s son. 
5  And he commanded them, saying, This is the thing that ye shall do; 
 
A third part of you that enter in on the sabbath shall even be 
keepers of the watch of the king’s house; 
 
6  and a third part shall be at the gate of Sur; and a third part at the 
 
gate behind the guard: so shall ye keep the watch of the house, that 
 
it be not broken down. 
7  And two parts of all you that go forth on the sabbath, even they 
shall keep the watch of the house of the Lord about the king. 
8  And ye shall compass the king round about, every man with his 
weapons in his hand: and he that cometh within the ranges, let 
 
him be slain: and be ye with the king as he goeth out and as he 
 
cometh in. 
9  ¶ And the captains over the hundreds did according to all things that 
Jehoiada the priest commanded: and they took every man his men 
 
that were to come in on the sabbath, with them that should go out 
on the sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest. 
10  And to the captains over hundreds did the priest give king David’s 
spears and shields, that were in the temple of the Lord. 
11  And the guard stood, every man with his weapons in his hand, 
round about the king, from the right corner of the temple to the 
left corner of the temple, along by the altar and the temple. 
12  And he brought forth the king’s son, and put the crown upon him, 
and gave him the testimony; and they made him king, and anointed 
 
him; and they clapped their hands, and said, God save the king. 
 
13  ¶ And when Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the 
people, she came to the people into the temple of the Lord. 
14  And when she looked, behold, the king stood by a pillar, as the 
manner was, and the princes and the trumpeters by the king, and 