  1617    Jeremiah 3 
strangers under every green tree, and ye have not obeyed my voice, 
saith the Lord. 
14  Turn, O backsliding children, saith the Lord; for I am married 
 
unto you: and I will take you one of a city, and two of a family, and 
 
I will bring you to Zion. 
15  ¶ And I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which shall 
feed you with knowledge and understanding. 
16  And it shall come to pass, when ye be multiplied and increased in 
the land, in those days, saith the Lord, they shall say no more, The 
ark of the covenant of the Lord: neither shall it come to mind; 
   
neither shall they remember it; neither shall they visit it; neither 
   
shall that be done any more. 
17  At that time they shall call Jerusalem the throne of the Lord; and 
 
all the nations shall be gathered unto it, to the name of the Lord, 
to Jerusalem: neither shall they walk any more after the 
 
imagination of their evil heart. 
18  In those days the house of Judah shall walk with the house of Israel, 
and they shall come together out of the land of the north to the 
land that I have given for an inheritance unto your fathers. 
19  ¶ But I said, How shall I put thee among the children, and give thee 
a pleasant land, a goodly heritage of the hosts of nations? and I 
 
said, Thou shalt call me, My father; and shalt not turn away from 
 
me. 
20  Surely as a wife treacherously departeth from her husband, so have 
ye dealt treacherously with me, O house of Israel, saith the Lord. 
21  ¶ A voice was heard upon the high places, weeping and 
supplications of the children of Israel: for they have perverted their 
 
way, and they have forgotten the Lord their God. 
22  Return, ye backsliding children, and I will heal your backslidings. 
Behold, we come unto thee; for thou art the Lord our God. 
 
23  Truly in vain is salvation hoped for from the hills, and from the 
multitude of mountains: truly in the Lord our God is the salvation 
 
of Israel. 
24  ¶ For shame hath devoured the labor of our fathers from our youth; 
 
their flocks and their herds, their sons and their daughters. 