  281    Leviticus 22 
7  And when the sun is down, he shall be clean, and shall afterward 
eat of the holy things; because it is his food. 
 
8  That which dieth of itself, or is torn with beasts, he shall not eat to 
defile himself therewith: I am the Lord. 
 
9  They shall therefore keep mine ordinance, lest they bear sin for it, 
and die therefore, if they profane it: I the Lord do sanctify them. 
 
10  ¶ There shall no stranger eat of the holy thing: a sojourner of the 
 
priest, or a hired servant, shall not eat of the holy thing. 
11  But if the priest buy any soul with his money, he shall eat of it, and 
he that is born in his house: they shall eat of his meat. 
 
12  If the priest’s daughter also be married unto a stranger, she may not 
eat of an offering of the holy things. 
13  But if the priest’s daughter be a widow, or divorced, and have no 
child, and is returned unto her father’s house, as in her youth, she 
shall eat of her father’s meat: but there shall no stranger eat 
 
thereof. 
14  And if a man eat of the holy thing unwittingly, then he shall put the 
fifth part thereof unto it, and shall give it unto the priest with the 
holy thing. 
15  And they shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel, 
which they offer unto the Lord; 
 
16  or suffer them to bear the iniquity of trespass, when they eat their 
holy things: for I the Lord do sanctify them. 
 
17  ¶ And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, 
18  Speak unto Aaron, and to his sons, and unto all the children of 
Israel, and say unto them, Whatsoever he be of the house of Israel, 
or of the strangers in Israel, that will offer his oblation for all his 
vows, and for all his freewill offerings, which they will offer unto 
the Lord for a burnt offering; 
 
19  ye shall offer at your own will a male without blemish, of the beeves, 
of the sheep, or of the goats. 
20  But whatsoever hath a blemish, that shall ye not offer: for it shall 
 
not be acceptable for you.  
21  And whosoever offereth a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the 
Lord to accomplish his vow, or a freewill offering in beeves or 