  517    Joshua 10 
16  ¶ But these five kings fled, and hid themselves in a cave at 
Makkedah. 
17  And it was told Joshua, saying, The five kings are found hid in a 
cave at Makkedah. 
18  And Joshua said, Roll great stones upon the mouth of the cave, and 
set men by it for to keep them: 
 
19  and stay ye not, but pursue after your enemies, and smite the 
hindmost of them; suffer them not to enter into their cities: for the 
   
Lord your God hath delivered them into your hand. 
20  And it came to pass, when Joshua and the children of Israel had 
made an end of slaying them with a very great slaughter, till they 
were consumed, that the rest which remained of them entered into 
fenced cities. 
21  And all the people returned to the camp to Joshua at Makkedah in 
peace: none moved his tongue against any of the children of Israel. 
 
22  ¶ Then said Joshua, Open the mouth of the cave, and bring out 
those five kings unto me out of the cave. 
23  And they did so, and brought forth those five kings unto him out of 
the cave, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of 
Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon. 
24  And it came to pass, when they brought out those kings unto 
Joshua, that Joshua called for all the men of Israel, and said unto 
the captains of the men of war which went with him, Come near, 
put your feet upon the necks of these kings. And they came near, 
and put their feet upon the necks of them. 
25  And Joshua said unto them, Fear not, nor be dismayed, be strong 
and of good courage: for thus shall the Lord do to all your enemies 
 
against whom ye fight. 
26  And afterward Joshua smote them, and slew them, and hanged 
them on five trees: and they were hanging upon the trees until the 
 
evening. 
27  And it came to pass at the time of the going down of the sun, that 
Joshua commanded, and they took them down off the trees, and 
cast them into the cave wherein they had been hid, and laid great 
stones in the cave’s mouth, which remain until this very day. 