  881    2 Kings 18 
come up, they came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, 
which is in the highway of the fuller’s field. 
18  And when they had called to the king, there came out to them 
Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, which was over the household, and 
Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder. 
19  ¶ And Rab-shakeh said unto them, Speak ye now to Hezekiah, 
Thus saith the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is 
this wherein thou trustest? 
 
20  Thou sayest, (but they are but vain words,) I have counsel and 
strength for the war. Now on whom dost thou trust, that thou 
rebellest against me? 
 
21  Now, behold, thou trustest upon the staff of this bruised reed, even 
upon Egypt, on which if a man lean, it will go into his hand, and 
pierce it: so is Pharaoh king of Egypt unto all that trust on him. 
 
22  But if ye say unto me, We trust in the Lord our God: is not that he, 
 
whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah hath taken away, and 
hath said to Judah and Jerusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar 
in Jerusalem? 
 
23  Now therefore, I pray thee, give pledges to my lord the king of 
Assyria, and I will deliver thee two thousand horses, if thou be able 
on thy part to set riders upon them. 
24  How then wilt thou turn away the face of one captain of the least of 
my master’s servants, and put thy trust on Egypt for chariots and 
for horsemen? 
 
25  Am I now come up without the Lord against this place to destroy 
it? The Lord said to me, Go up against this land, and destroy it. 
 
26  ¶ Then said Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and Shebna, and Joah, 
unto Rab-shakeh, Speak, I pray thee, to thy servants in the Syrian 
language; for we understand it: and talk not with us in the Jews’ 
   
language in the ears of the people that are on the wall. 
27  But Rab-shakeh said unto them, Hath my master sent me to thy 
master, and to thee, to speak these words? hath he not sent me to the 
 
men which sit on the wall, that they may eat their own dung, and 
drink their own piss with you? 
 