  1902    Daniel 11 
33  And they that understand among the people shall instruct many: 
 
yet they shall fall by the sword, and by flame, by captivity, and by 
spoil, many days. 
34  Now when they shall fall, they shall be helped with a little help: 
 
but many shall cleave to them with flatteries. 
35  And some of them of understanding shall fall, to try them, and to 
purge, and to make them white, even to the time of the end: because 
 
it is yet for a time appointed. 
36  ¶ And the king shall do according to his will; and he shall exalt 
 
himself, and magnify himself above every god, and shall speak 
marvelous things against the God of gods, and shall prosper till the 
indignation be accomplished: for that that is determined shall be 
 
done. 
37  Neither shall he regard the God of his fathers, nor the desire of 
women, nor regard any god: for he shall magnify himself above all. 
 
38  But in his estate shall he honor the God of forces: and a god whom 
 
his fathers knew not shall he honor with gold, and silver, and with 
precious stones, and pleasant things. 
39  Thus shall he do in the most strongholds with a strange god, whom 
he shall acknowledge and increase with glory: and he shall cause 
 
them to rule over many, and shall divide the land for gain. 
40  ¶ And at the time of the end shall the king of the south push at 
him: and the king of the north shall come against him like a 
 
whirlwind, with chariots, and with horsemen, and with many 
ships; and he shall enter into the countries, and shall overflow and 
 
pass over. 
41  He shall enter also into the glorious land, and many countries shall 
be overthrown: but these shall escape out of his hand, even Edom, 
 
and Moab, and the chief of the children of Ammon. 
42  He shall stretch forth his hand also upon the countries: and the 
 
land of Egypt shall not escape. 
43  But he shall have power over the treasures of gold and of silver, and 
over all the precious things of Egypt: and the Libyans and the 
 
Ethiopians shall be at his steps. 