  940    1 Chronicles 15 
15  And the children of the Levites bare the ark of God upon their 
shoulders with the staves thereon, as Moses commanded, according 
to the word of the Lord.  
16  ¶ And David spake to the chief of the Levites to appoint their 
brethren to be the singers with instruments of music, psalteries and 
harps and cymbals, sounding, by lifting up the voice with joy. 
17  So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of his 
 
brethren, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari 
 
their brethren, Ethan the son of Kushaiah; 
 
18  and with them their brethren of the second degree, Zechariah, Ben, 
and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and 
Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and 
Mikneiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, the porters. 
19  So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were appointed to sound 
with cymbals of brass; 
 
20  and Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, 
and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah, with psalteries on Alamoth; 
 
21  and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom, and 
Jeiel, and Azaziah, with harps on the Sheminith to excel. 
22  And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was for song: he instructed 
 
about the song, because he was skilful. 
23  And Berechiah and Elkanah were doorkeepers for the ark. 
24  And Shebaniah, and Jehoshaphat, and Nethaneel, and Amasai, and 
Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, did blow with the 
trumpets before the ark of God: and Obed-edom and Jehiah were 
 
doorkeepers for the ark. 
25  ¶ So David, and the elders of Israel, and the captains over 
thousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the Lord 
out of the house of Obed-edom with joy. 
26  And it came to pass, when God helped the Levites that bare the ark 
of the covenant of the Lord, that they offered seven bullocks and 
seven rams. 
27  And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and all the Levites 
that bare the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the master of the 
song with the singers: David also had upon him an ephod of linen. 
 