  1464    Ecclesiastes 2 
7  I got me servants and maidens, and had servants born in my house; 
 
also I had great possessions of great and small cattle above all that 
were in Jerusalem before me: 
 
8  I gathered me also silver and gold, and the peculiar treasure of 
kings and of the provinces: I gat me men singers and women 
 
singers, and the delights of the sons of men, as musical 
instruments, and that of all sorts.  
9  ¶ So I was great, and increased more than all that were before me in 
Jerusalem: also my wisdom remained with me. 
 
10  And whatsoever mine eyes desired I kept not from them, I 
withheld not my heart from any joy; for my heart rejoiced in all my 
 
labor: and this was my portion of all my labor. 
 
11  Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and on 
the labor that I had labored to do: and, behold, all was vanity and 
 
vexation of spirit, and there was no profit under the sun. 
12  ¶ And I turned myself to behold wisdom, and madness, and folly: 
 
for what can the man do that cometh after the king? even that which 
 
hath been already done. 
13  Then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly, as far as light excelleth 
darkness. 
14  The wise man’s eyes are in his head; but the fool walketh in 
 
darkness: and I myself perceived also that one event happeneth to 
 
them all. 
15  Then said I in my heart, As it happeneth to the fool, so it 
happeneth even to me; and why was I then more wise? Then I said 
   
in my heart, that this also is vanity. 
16  For there is no remembrance of the wise more than of the fool for 
ever; seeing that which now is in the days to come shall all be 
 
forgotten. And how dieth the wise man? as the fool. 
 
17  Therefore I hated life; because the work that is wrought under the 
 
sun is grievous unto me: for all is vanity and vexation of spirit. 
 
18  ¶ Yea, I hated all my labor which I had taken under the sun: 
 
because I should leave it unto the man that shall be after me. 
19  And who knoweth whether he shall be a wise man or a fool? yet 
 
shall he have rule over all my labor wherein I have labored, and 