  203    Exodus 32 
13  Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, thy servants, to whom thou 
swarest by thine own self, and saidst unto them, I will multiply 
your seed as the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have spoken 
of will I give unto your seed, and they shall inherit it for ever.  
14  And the Lord repented of the evil which he thought to do unto his 
people.  
15  ¶ And Moses turned, and went down from the mount, and the two 
tables of the testimony were in his hand: the tables were written on 
 
both their sides; on the one side and on the other were they 
 
written. 
16  And the tables were the work of God, and the writing was the 
writing of God, graven upon the tables. 
17  And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he 
said unto Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp. 
18  And he said, It is not the voice of them that shout for mastery, 
neither is it the voice of them that cry for being overcome; but the 
 
noise of them that sing do I hear. 
19  And it came to pass, as soon as he came nigh unto the camp, that he 
saw the calf, and the dancing: and Moses’ anger waxed hot, and he 
 
cast the tables out of his hands, and brake them beneath the mount. 
20  And he took the calf which they had made, and burnt it in the fire, 
and ground it to powder, and strewed it upon the water, and made 
the children of Israel drink of it. 
21  ¶ And Moses said unto Aaron, What did this people unto thee, that 
thou hast brought so great a sin upon them? 
 
22  And Aaron said, Let not the anger of my lord wax hot: thou 
 
knowest the people, that they are set on mischief. 
23  For they said unto me, Make us gods, which shall go before us: for 
 
as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of 
Egypt, we wot not what is become of him. 
24  And I said unto them, Whosoever hath any gold, let them break it 
off. So they gave it me: then I cast it into the fire, and there came 
 
out this calf. 
25  ¶ And when Moses saw that the people were naked, (for Aaron had 
made them naked unto their shame among their enemies,) 