  142    Exodus 8 
unto him, Thus saith the Lord, Let my people go, that they may 
serve me. 
21  Else, if thou wilt not let my people go, behold, I will send swarms 
of flies upon thee, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people, and 
into thy houses: and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full of 
 
swarms of flies, and also the ground whereon they are. 
22  And I will sever in that day the land of Goshen, in which my people 
dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there; to the end thou mayest 
 
know that I am the Lord in the midst of the earth. 
23  And I will put a division between my people and thy people: 
 
tomorrow shall this sign be. 
24  And the Lord did so; and there came a grievous swarm of flies into 
 
the house of Pharaoh, and into his servants’ houses, and into all the 
land of Egypt: the land was corrupted by reason of the swarm of 
 
flies. 
25  ¶ And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron, and said, Go ye, 
sacrifice to your God in the land. 
26  And Moses said, It is not meet so to do; for we shall sacrifice the 
 
abomination of the Egyptians to the Lord our God: lo, shall we 
 
sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, and 
will they not stone us? 
 
27  We will go three days’ journey into the wilderness, and sacrifice to 
the Lord our God, as he shall command us. 
28  And Pharaoh said, I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice to the 
Lord your God in the wilderness; only ye shall not go very far 
 
away: entreat for me. 
 
29  And Moses said, Behold, I go out from thee, and I will entreat the 
Lord that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his 
servants, and from his people, tomorrow: but let not Pharaoh deal 
 
deceitfully any more in not letting the people go to sacrifice to the 
Lord. 
30  And Moses went out from Pharaoh, and entreated the Lord. 
31  And the Lord did according to the word of Moses; and he removed 
 
the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his 
people; there remained not one. 
 