  357    Numbers 19 
7  Then the priest shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh 
in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp, and the priest 
shall be unclean until the even. 
8  And he that burneth her shall wash his clothes in water, and bathe 
his flesh in water, and shall be unclean until the even. 
9  And a man that is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer, and 
lay them up without the camp in a clean place, and it shall be kept 
for the congregation of the children of Israel for a water of 
separation: it is a purification for sin.  
 
10  And he that gathereth the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes, 
and be unclean until the even: and it shall be unto the children of 
 
Israel, and unto the stranger that sojourneth among them, for a 
statute for ever. 
11  ¶ He that toucheth the dead body of any man shall be unclean 
seven days. 
12  He shall purify himself with it on the third day, and on the seventh 
day he shall be clean: but if he purify not himself the third day, 
 
then the seventh day he shall not be clean. 
13  Whosoever toucheth the dead body of any man that is dead, and 
purifieth not himself, defileth the tabernacle of the Lord; and that 
 
soul shall be cut off from Israel: because the water of separation was 
 
not sprinkled upon him, he shall be unclean; his uncleanness is yet 
 
upon him. 
14  ¶ This is the law, when a man dieth in a tent: all that come into the 
 
tent, and all that is in the tent, shall be unclean seven days. 
15  And every open vessel, which hath no covering bound upon it, is 
unclean. 
16  And whosoever toucheth one that is slain with a sword in the open 
fields, or a dead body, or a bone of a man, or a grave, shall be 
unclean seven days. 
17  And for an unclean person they shall take of the ashes of the burnt 
heifer of purification for sin, and running water shall be put 
thereto in a vessel: 
 
18  and a clean person shall take hyssop, and dip it in the water, and 
sprinkle it upon the tent, and upon all the vessels, and upon the 