  1698    Jeremiah 37 
11  ¶ And it came to pass, that when the army of the Chaldeans was 
broken up from Jerusalem for fear of Pharaoh’s army, 
12  then Jeremiah went forth out of Jerusalem to go into the land of 
Benjamin, to separate himself thence in the midst of the people. 
13  And when he was in the gate of Benjamin, a captain of the ward 
was there, whose name was Irijah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of 
Hananiah; and he took Jeremiah the prophet, saying, Thou fallest 
 
away to the Chaldeans. 
14  Then said Jeremiah, It is false; I fall not away to the Chaldeans. But 
 
he hearkened not to him: so Irijah took Jeremiah, and brought him 
 
to the princes. 
15  Wherefore the princes were wroth with Jeremiah, and smote him, 
and put him in prison in the house of Jonathan the scribe; for they 
 
had made that the prison. 
16  ¶ When Jeremiah was entered into the dungeon, and into the 
cabins, and Jeremiah had remained there many days; 
 
17  then Zedekiah the king sent, and took him out; and the king asked 
 
him secretly in his house, and said, Is there any word from the 
Lord? And Jeremiah said, There is: for, said he, thou shalt be 
   
delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon. 
18  Moreover Jeremiah said unto king Zedekiah, What have I offended 
against thee, or against thy servants, or against this people, that ye 
have put me in prison? 
 
19  Where are now your prophets which prophesied unto you, saying, 
The king of Babylon shall not come against you, nor against this 
land? 
 
20  Therefore hear now, I pray thee, O my lord the king: let my 
 
supplication, I pray thee, be accepted before thee; that thou cause 
 
me not to return to the house of Jonathan the scribe, lest I die 
there. 
21  Then Zedekiah the king commanded that they should commit 
Jeremiah into the court of the prison, and that they should give 
him daily a piece of bread out of the bakers’ street, until all the 
bread in the city were spent. Thus Jeremiah remained in the court 
of the prison. 