  1624    Jeremiah 6 
5  Arise, and let us go by night, and let us destroy her palaces. 
6  ¶ For thus hath the Lord of hosts said, Hew ye down trees, and 
cast a mount against Jerusalem: this is the city to be visited; she is 
   
wholly oppression in the midst of her. 
7  As a fountain casteth out her waters, so she casteth out her 
wickedness: violence and spoil is heard in her; before me 
   
continually is grief and wounds. 
8  Be thou instructed, O Jerusalem, lest my soul depart from thee; lest 
 
I make thee desolate, a land not inhabited. 
9  ¶ Thus saith the Lord of hosts, They shall thoroughly glean the 
remnant of Israel as a vine: turn back thine hand as a grape 
 
gatherer into the baskets. 
10  To whom shall I speak, and give warning, that they may hear? 
 
Behold, their ear is uncircumcised, and they cannot hearken: 
 
behold, the word of the Lord is unto them a reproach; they have 
 
no delight in it. 
11  Therefore I am full of the fury of the Lord; I am weary with 
 
holding in: I will pour it out upon the children abroad, and upon 
 
the assembly of young men together: for even the husband with the 
 
wife shall be taken, the aged with him that is full of days. 
12  And their houses shall be turned unto others, with their fields and 
wives together: for I will stretch out my hand upon the inhabitants 
 
of the land, saith the Lord. 
13  For from the least of them even unto the greatest of them every one 
is given to covetousness; and from the prophet even unto the priest 
 
every one dealeth falsely. 
14  They have healed also the hurt of the daughter of my people 
slightly, saying, Peace, peace; when there is no peace.  
 
15  Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, 
 
they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush; therefore 
 
they shall fall among them that fall: at the time that I visit them 
 
they shall be cast down, saith the Lord.  
16  ¶ Thus saith the Lord, Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask for 
the old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall 
find rest for your souls. But they said, We will not walk therein. 