  336    Numbers 11 
21  And Moses said, The people, among whom I am, are six hundred 
thousand footmen; and thou hast said, I will give them flesh, that 
 
they may eat a whole month. 
22  Shall the flocks and the herds be slain for them, to suffice them? or 
 
shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to suffice 
them? 
 
23  And the Lord said unto Moses, Is the Lord’s hand waxed short? 
 
thou shalt see now whether my word shall come to pass unto thee 
or not. 
24  ¶ And Moses went out, and told the people the words of the Lord, 
and gathered the seventy men of the elders of the people, and set 
them round about the tabernacle. 
25  And the Lord came down in a cloud, and spake unto him, and 
took of the spirit that was upon him, and gave it unto the seventy 
elders: and it came to pass, that, when the spirit rested upon them, 
 
they prophesied, and did not cease. 
26  ¶ But there remained two of the men in the camp, the name of the 
one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the spirit 
 
rested upon them; and they were of them that were written, but 
 
went not out unto the tabernacle: and they prophesied in the camp. 
 
27  And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and 
Medad do prophesy in the camp. 
28  And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Moses, one of his young 
men, answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them. 
29  And Moses said unto him, Enviest thou for my sake? would God 
 
that all the Lord’s people were prophets, and that the Lord would 
put his Spirit upon them. 
30  And Moses gat him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel. 
31  ¶ And there went forth a wind from the Lord, and brought quails 
from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, as it were a day’s 
journey on this side, and as it were a day’s journey on the other 
side, round about the camp, and as it were two cubits high upon the 
face of the earth. 
32  And the people stood up all that day, and all that night, and all the 
next day, and they gathered the quails: he that gathered least 
 