  510    Joshua 8 
2  and thou shalt do to Ai and her king as thou didst unto Jericho and 
her king: only the spoil thereof, and the cattle thereof, shall ye take 
 
for a prey unto yourselves: lay thee an ambush for the city behind 
 
it. 
3  ¶ So Joshua arose, and all the people of war, to go up against Ai: 
 
and Joshua chose out thirty thousand mighty men of valor, and 
sent them away by night. 
4  And he commanded them, saying, Behold, ye shall lie in wait 
against the city, even behind the city: go not very far from the city, 
 
but be ye all ready: 
 
5  and I, and all the people that are with me, will approach unto the 
city: and it shall come to pass, when they come out against us, as at 
 
the first, that we will flee before them, 
6  (for they will come out after us,) till we have drawn them from the 
city; for they will say, They flee before us, as at the first: therefore 
   
we will flee before them. 
7  Then ye shall rise up from the ambush, and seize upon the city: for 
 
the Lord your God will deliver it into your hand. 
8  And it shall be, when ye have taken the city, that ye shall set the city 
on fire: according to the commandment of the Lord shall ye do. 
 
See, I have commanded you. 
9  Joshua therefore sent them forth; and they went to lie in ambush, 
 
and abode between Beth-el and Ai, on the west side of Ai: but 
 
Joshua lodged that night among the people. 
10  ¶ And Joshua rose up early in the morning, and numbered the 
people, and went up, he and the elders of Israel, before the people 
to Ai. 
11  And all the people, even the people of war that were with him, went 
up, and drew nigh, and came before the city, and pitched on the 
north side of Ai: now there was a valley between them and Ai. 
 
12  And he took about five thousand men, and set them to lie in 
ambush between Beth-el and Ai, on the west side of the city. 
13  And when they had set the people, even all the host that was on the 
north of the city, and their liers in wait on the west of the city, 
Joshua went that night into the midst of the valley. 