  651    1 Samuel 14 
39  For, as the Lord liveth, which saveth Israel, though it be in 
Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man 
among all the people that answered him. 
40  Then said he unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan 
my son will be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do 
what seemeth good unto thee. 
41  Therefore Saul said unto the Lord God of Israel, Give a perfect lot. 
And Saul and Jonathan were taken: but the people escaped. 
 
42  And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And 
Jonathan was taken. 
43  ¶ Then Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And 
Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey with the 
end of the rod that was in mine hand, and, lo, I must die. 
44  And Saul answered, God do so and more also: for thou shalt surely 
 
die, Jonathan. 
45  And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath 
wrought this great salvation in Israel? God forbid: as the Lord 
   
liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he 
 
hath wrought with God this day. So the people rescued Jonathan, 
that he died not. 
46  Then Saul went up from following the Philistines: and the 
 
Philistines went to their own place. 
47  ¶ So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his 
enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of 
Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and 
against the Philistines: and whithersoever he turned himself, he 
 
vexed them. 
48  And he gathered a host, and smote the Amalekites, and delivered 
Israel out of the hands of them that spoiled them. 
49  ¶ Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishui, and Melchi-shua: 
 
and the names of his two daughters were these; the name of the 
 
firstborn Merab, and the name of the younger Michal: 
 
50  and the name of Saul’s wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of 
Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner, the 
 
son of Ner, Saul’s uncle. 