  602    Judges 19 
3  And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak friendly unto 
her, and to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a 
couple of asses: and she brought him into her father’s house; and 
   
when the father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him. 
4  And his father-in-law, the damsel’s father, retained him; and he 
 
abode with him three days: so they did eat and drink, and lodged 
 
there. 
5  And it came to pass on the fourth day, when they arose early in the 
morning, that he rose up to depart: and the damsel’s father said 
 
unto his son-in-law, Comfort thine heart with a morsel of bread, 
and afterward go your way. 
6  And they sat down, and did eat and drink both of them together: 
 
for the damsel’s father had said unto the man, Be content, I pray 
thee, and tarry all night, and let thine heart be merry. 
7  And when the man rose up to depart, his father-in-law urged him: 
 
therefore he lodged there again. 
8  And he arose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart: and 
 
the damsel’s father said, Comfort thine heart, I pray thee. And they 
tarried until afternoon, and they did eat both of them. 
9  And when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and 
his servant, his father-in-law, the damsel’s father, said unto him, 
Behold, now the day draweth toward evening, I pray you tarry all 
night: behold, the day groweth to an end, lodge here, that thine 
 
heart may be merry; and tomorrow get you early on your way, that 
 
thou mayest go home. 
10  ¶ But the man would not tarry that night, but he rose up and 
departed, and came over against Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and 
 
there were with him two asses saddled, his concubine also was with 
him. 
11  And when they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and the servant 
 
said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn in into this 
city of the Jebusites, and lodge in it. 
12  And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside hither into 
the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel; we will 
 
pass over to Gibeah. 