  1764    Ezekiel 7 
6  An end is come, the end is come: it watcheth for thee; behold, it is 
   
come. 
7  The morning is come unto thee, O thou that dwellest in the land: 
 
the time is come, the day of trouble is near, and not the sounding 
again of the mountains. 
8  Now will I shortly pour out my fury upon thee, and accomplish 
mine anger upon thee: and I will judge thee according to thy ways, 
 
and will recompense thee for all thine abominations. 
9  And mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity: I will 
 
recompense thee according to thy ways and thine abominations 
that are in the midst of thee; and ye shall know that I am the Lord 
 
that smiteth. 
10  ¶ Behold the day, behold, it is come: the morning is gone forth; the 
   
rod hath blossomed, pride hath budded. 
11  Violence is risen up into a rod of wickedness: none of them shall 
 
remain, nor of their multitude, nor of any of theirs: neither shall 
 
there be wailing for them. 
12  The time is come, the day draweth near: let not the buyer rejoice, 
 
nor the seller mourn: for wrath is upon all the multitude thereof. 
 
13  For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although they 
were yet alive: for the vision is touching the whole multitude 
 
thereof, which shall not return; neither shall any strengthen 
 
himself in the iniquity of his life. 
14  ¶ They have blown the trumpet, even to make all ready; but none 
 
goeth to the battle: for my wrath is upon all the multitude thereof. 
 
15  The sword is without, and the pestilence and the famine within: he 
 
that is in the field shall die with the sword; and he that is in the city, 
 
famine and pestilence shall devour him. 
16  But they that escape of them shall escape, and shall be on the 
mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them mourning, every 
one for his iniquity. 
17  All hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall be weak as water. 
18  They shall also gird themselves with sackcloth, and horror shall 
cover them; and shame shall be upon all faces, and baldness upon all 
 
their heads. 