  669    1 Samuel 20 
29  and he said, Let me go, I pray thee; for our family hath a sacrifice in 
 
the city; and my brother, he hath commanded me to be there: and 
   
now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me get away, I pray 
thee, and see my brethren. Therefore he cometh not unto the 
king’s table. 
30  ¶ Then Saul’s anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto 
him, Thou son of the perverse rebellious woman, do not I know 
that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own confusion, and 
unto the confusion of thy mother’s nakedness? 
 
31  For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt 
not be established, nor thy kingdom. Wherefore now send and 
fetch him unto me, for he shall surely die. 
32  And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, 
Wherefore shall he be slain? what hath he done? 
   
33  And Saul cast a javelin at him to smite him: whereby Jonathan 
 
knew that it was determined of his father to slay David. 
34  So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no 
meat the second day of the month: for he was grieved for David, 
 
because his father had done him shame. 
35  ¶ And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into 
the field at the time appointed with David, and a little lad with 
him. 
36  And he said unto his lad, Run, find out now the arrows which I 
shoot. And as the lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him. 
37  And when the lad was come to the place of the arrow which 
Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is not the 
arrow beyond thee? 
 
38  And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make speed, haste, stay not. And 
Jonathan’s lad gathered up the arrows, and came to his master. 
39  But the lad knew not any thing: only Jonathan and David knew the 
 
matter. 
40  And Jonathan gave his artillery unto his lad, and said unto him, 
Go, carry them to the city. 
41  And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of a place toward 
the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself 