  1049    2 Chronicles 35 
of thirty thousand, and three thousand bullocks: these were of the 
 
king’s substance. 
8  And his princes gave willingly unto the people, to the priests, and 
to the Levites: Hilkiah and Zechariah and Jehiel, rulers of the 
 
house of God, gave unto the priests for the passover offerings two 
thousand and six hundred small cattle, and three hundred oxen. 
9  Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethaneel, his brethren, and 
Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, chief of the Levites, gave unto the 
Levites for passover offerings five thousand small cattle, and five 
hundred oxen. 
10  ¶ So the service was prepared, and the priests stood in their place, 
and the Levites in their courses, according to the king’s 
commandment. 
11  And they killed the passover, and the priests sprinkled the blood 
from their hands, and the Levites flayed them. 
12  And they removed the burnt offerings, that they might give 
according to the divisions of the families of the people, to offer 
unto the Lord, as it is written in the book of Moses. And so did they 
with the oxen. 
13  And they roasted the passover with fire according to the ordinance: 
 
but the other holy offerings sod they in pots, and in caldrons, and in 
pans, and divided them speedily among all the people. 
14  And afterward they made ready for themselves, and for the priests: 
 
because the priests the sons of Aaron were busied in offering of burnt 
offerings and the fat until night; therefore the Levites prepared for 
 
themselves, and for the priests the sons of Aaron. 
15  And the singers the sons of Asaph were in their place, according to 
the commandment of David, and Asaph, and Heman, and 
Jeduthun the king’s seer; and the porters waited at every gate; they 
   
might not depart from their service; for their brethren the Levites 
 
prepared for them. 
16  ¶ So all the service of the Lord was prepared the same day, to keep 
the passover, and to offer burnt offerings upon the altar of the 
Lord, according to the commandment of king Josiah. 