  355    Numbers 18 
16  And those that are to be redeemed from a month old shalt thou 
redeem, according to thine estimation, for the money of five 
shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, which is twenty gerahs. 
17  But the firstling of a cow, or the firstling of a sheep, or the firstling 
of a goat, thou shalt not redeem; they are holy: thou shalt sprinkle 
   
their blood upon the altar, and shalt burn their fat for an offering 
made by fire, for a sweet savor unto the Lord. 
18  And the flesh of them shall be thine, as the wave breast and as the 
right shoulder are thine. 
19  All the heave offerings of the holy things, which the children of 
Israel offer unto the Lord, have I given thee, and thy sons and thy 
daughters with thee, by a statute for ever: it is a covenant of salt for 
 
ever before the Lord unto thee and to thy seed with thee. 
20  And the Lord spake unto Aaron, Thou shalt have no inheritance 
in their land, neither shalt thou have any part among them: I am 
 
thy part and thine inheritance among the children of Israel. 
21  ¶ And, behold, I have given the children of Levi all the tenth in 
Israel for an inheritance, for their service which they serve, even the 
service of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
22  Neither must the children of Israel henceforth come nigh the 
tabernacle of the congregation, lest they bear sin, and die. 
23  But the Levites shall do the service of the tabernacle of the 
congregation, and they shall bear their iniquity: it shall be a statute 
 
for ever throughout your generations, that among the children of 
Israel they have no inheritance. 
24  But the tithes of the children of Israel, which they offer as a heave 
offering unto the Lord, I have given to the Levites to inherit: 
 
therefore I have said unto them, Among the children of Israel they 
shall have no inheritance. 
25  ¶ And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, 
26  Thus speak unto the Levites, and say unto them, When ye take of 
the children of Israel the tithes which I have given you from them 
for your inheritance, then ye shall offer up a heave offering of it for 
the Lord, even a tenth part of the tithe. 