  1636    Jeremiah 11 
5  that I may perform the oath which I have sworn unto your fathers, 
to give them a land flowing with milk and honey, as it is this day. 
Then answered I, and said, So be it, O Lord. 
6  ¶ Then the Lord said unto me, Proclaim all these words in the 
cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying, Hear ye the 
words of this covenant, and do them. 
7  For I earnestly protested unto your fathers in the day that I brought 
them up out of the land of Egypt, even unto this day, rising early 
and protesting, saying, Obey my voice. 
8  Yet they obeyed not, nor inclined their ear, but walked every one in 
the imagination of their evil heart: therefore I will bring upon 
 
them all the words of this covenant, which I commanded them to 
do; but they did them not. 
 
9  ¶ And the Lord said unto me, A conspiracy is found among the 
men of Judah, and among the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
10  They are turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers, which 
refused to hear my words; and they went after other gods to serve 
 
them: the house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my 
 
covenant which I made with their fathers. 
11  Therefore thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will bring evil upon 
them, which they shall not be able to escape; and though they shall 
 
cry unto me, I will not hearken unto them. 
12  Then shall the cities of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem go, and 
cry unto the gods unto whom they offer incense: but they shall not 
 
save them at all in the time of their trouble. 
13  For according to the number of thy cities were thy gods, O Judah; 
 
and according to the number of the streets of Jerusalem have ye set 
up altars to that shameful thing, even altars to burn incense unto 
Baal. 
14  ¶ Therefore pray not thou for this people, neither lift up a cry or 
prayer for them: for I will not hear them in the time that they cry 
 
unto me for their trouble. 
15  What hath my beloved to do in mine house, seeing she hath 
wrought lewdness with many, and the holy flesh is passed from 
thee? when thou doest evil, then thou rejoicest. 
 