  1011    2 Chronicles 20 
name is in this house,) and cry unto thee in our affliction, then 
thou wilt hear and help. 
10  And now, behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and mount 
Seir, whom thou wouldest not let Israel invade, when they came 
out of the land of Egypt, but they turned from them, and destroyed 
them not; 
 
11  behold, I say, how they reward us, to come to cast us out of thy 
possession, which thou hast given us to inherit. 
12  O our God, wilt thou not judge them? for we have no might against 
 
this great company that cometh against us; neither know we what 
 
to do: but our eyes are upon thee. 
 
13  ¶ And all Judah stood before the Lord, with their little ones, their 
wives, and their children. 
14  Then upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the 
son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, 
came the Spirit of the Lord in the midst of the congregation; 
 
15  and he said, Hearken ye, all Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem, 
and thou king Jehoshaphat, Thus saith the Lord unto you, Be not 
afraid nor dismayed by reason of this great multitude; for the battle 
 
is not yours, but God’s. 
16  Tomorrow go ye down against them: behold, they come up by the 
 
cliff of Ziz; and ye shall find them at the end of the brook, before 
 
the wilderness of Jeruel. 
17  Ye shall not need to fight in this battle: set yourselves, stand ye still, 
 
and see the salvation of the Lord with you, O Judah and 
Jerusalem: fear not, nor be dismayed; tomorrow go out against 
   
them: for the Lord will be with you.  
 
18  ¶ And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground: and 
 
all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell before the Lord, 
worshipping the Lord. 
19  And the Levites, of the children of the Kohathites, and of the 
children of the Korhites, stood up to praise the Lord God of Israel 
with a loud voice on high. 
20  ¶ And they rose early in the morning, and went forth into the 
wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and 
 