  389    Numbers 31 
6  And Moses sent them to the war, a thousand of every tribe, them 
and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, to the war, with the 
holy instruments, and the trumpets to blow in his hand. 
7  And they warred against the Midianites, as the Lord commanded 
Moses; and they slew all the males. 
 
8  And they slew the kings of Midian, beside the rest of them that 
were slain; namely, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, 
 
five kings of Midian: Balaam also the son of Beor they slew with 
 
the sword. 
9  And the children of Israel took all the women of Midian captives, 
and their little ones, and took the spoil of all their cattle, and all 
their flocks, and all their goods. 
10  And they burnt all their cities wherein they dwelt, and all their 
goodly castles, with fire. 
11  And they took all the spoil, and all the prey, both of men and of 
beasts. 
12  And they brought the captives, and the prey, and the spoil, unto 
Moses and Eleazar the priest, and unto the congregation of the 
children of Israel, unto the camp at the plains of Moab, which are 
by Jordan near Jericho. 
13  ¶ And Moses, and Eleazar the priest, and all the princes of the 
congregation, went forth to meet them without the camp. 
14  And Moses was wroth with the officers of the host, with the 
captains over thousands, and captains over hundreds, which came 
from the battle. 
15  And Moses said unto them, Have ye saved all the women alive? 
 
16  Behold, these caused the children of Israel, through the counsel of 
Balaam, to commit trespass against the Lord in the matter of Peor, 
and there was a plague among the congregation of the Lord. 
17  Now therefore kill every male among the little ones, and kill every 
woman that hath known man by lying with him. 
18  But all the women children, that have not known a man by lying 
with him, keep alive for yourselves. 
19  And do ye abide without the camp seven days: whosoever hath 
 
killed any person, and whosoever hath touched any slain, purify 