  584    Judges 11 
10  And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, The Lord be witness 
between us, if we do not so according to thy words. 
11  Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people 
made him head and captain over them: and Jephthah uttered all his 
 
words before the Lord in Mizpeh. 
12  ¶ And Jephthah sent messengers unto the king of the children of 
Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come 
against me to fight in my land? 
 
13  And the king of the children of Ammon answered unto the 
messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel took away my land, when 
they came up out of Egypt, from Arnon even unto Jabbok, and unto 
Jordan: now therefore restore those lands again peaceably. 
 
14  And Jephthah sent messengers again unto the king of the children 
of Ammon: 
 
15  and said unto him, Thus saith Jephthah, Israel took not away the 
land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon: 
 
16  but when Israel came up from Egypt, and walked through the 
wilderness unto the Red sea, and came to Kadesh; 
 
17  then Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me, 
I pray thee, pass through thy land: but the king of Edom would not 
 
hearken thereto. And in like manner they sent unto the king of 
Moab; but he would not consent: and Israel abode in Kadesh. 
   
18  Then they went along through the wilderness, and compassed the 
land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of 
the land of Moab, and pitched on the other side of Arnon, but came 
not within the border of Moab: for Arnon was the border of Moab. 
 
19  And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the 
king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray 
 
thee, through thy land into my place. 
20  But Sihon trusted not Israel to pass through his coast: but Sihon 
 
gathered all his people together, and pitched in Jahaz, and fought 
against Israel. 
21  And the Lord God of Israel delivered Sihon and all his people into 
the hand of Israel, and they smote them: so Israel possessed all the 
 
land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country. 