  185    Exodus 26 
2  The length of one curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, and the 
breadth of one curtain four cubits: and every one of the curtains 
 
shall have one measure. 
3  The five curtains shall be coupled together one to another; and 
 
other five curtains shall be coupled one to another. 
4  And thou shalt make loops of blue upon the edge of the one curtain 
from the selvedge in the coupling; and likewise shalt thou make in 
 
the uttermost edge of another curtain, in the coupling of the second. 
5  Fifty loops shalt thou make in the one curtain, and fifty loops shalt 
thou make in the edge of the curtain that is in the coupling of the 
second; that the loops may take hold one of another. 
 
6  And thou shalt make fifty taches of gold, and couple the curtains 
together with the taches: and it shall be one tabernacle. 
 
7  ¶ And thou shalt make curtains of goats’ hair to be a covering upon 
the tabernacle: eleven curtains shalt thou make. 
 
8  The length of one curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of 
one curtain four cubits: and the eleven curtains shall be all of one 
 
measure. 
9  And thou shalt couple five curtains by themselves, and six curtains 
by themselves, and shalt double the sixth curtain in the forefront of 
the tabernacle. 
10  And thou shalt make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain that 
is outmost in the coupling, and fifty loops in the edge of the curtain 
which coupleth the second. 
11  ¶ And thou shalt make fifty taches of brass, and put the taches into 
the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may be one. 
12  And the remnant that remaineth of the curtains of the tent, the 
half curtain that remaineth, shall hang over the back side of the 
tabernacle. 
13  And a cubit on the one side, and a cubit on the other side of that 
which remaineth in the length of the curtains of the tent, it shall 
hang over the sides of the tabernacle, on this side and on that side, 
to cover it. 
14  And thou shalt make a covering for the tent of rams’ skins dyed red, 
and a covering above of badgers’ skins. 