  1554    Isaiah 36 
11  ¶ Then said Eliakim and Shebna and Joah unto Rab-shakeh, Speak, 
I pray thee, unto thy servants in the Syrian language; for we 
 
understand it: and speak not to us in the Jews’ language, in the ears 
 
of the people that are on the wall. 
12  But Rab-shakeh said, Hath my master sent me to thy master and to 
thee to speak these words? hath he not sent me to the men that sit 
 
upon the wall, that they may eat their own dung, and drink their 
own piss with you? 
 
13  ¶ Then Rab-shakeh stood, and cried with a loud voice in the Jews’ 
language, and said, Hear ye the words of the great king, the king of 
Assyria. 
14  Thus saith the king, Let not Hezekiah deceive you: for he shall not 
 
be able to deliver you. 
15  Neither let Hezekiah make you trust in the Lord, saying, The 
Lord will surely deliver us: this city shall not be delivered into the 
 
hand of the king of Assyria. 
16  Hearken not to Hezekiah: for thus saith the king of Assyria, Make 
 
an agreement with me by a present, and come out to me: and eat ye 
 
every one of his vine, and every one of his fig tree, and drink ye 
every one the waters of his own cistern; 
 
17  until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land 
of corn and wine, a land of bread and vineyards. 
18  Beware lest Hezekiah persuade you, saying, The Lord will deliver 
us. Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered his land out of the 
hand of the king of Assyria? 
 
19  Where are the gods of Hamath and Arphad? where are the gods of 
 
Sepharvaim? and have they delivered Samaria out of my hand? 
   
20  Who are they among all the gods of these lands, that have delivered 
their land out of my hand, that the Lord should deliver Jerusalem 
out of my hand? 
 
21  ¶ But they held their peace, and answered him not a word: for the 
 
king’s commandment was, saying, Answer him not. 
22  Then came Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, that was over the 
household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the 