  613    Ruth 1 
10  And they said unto her, Surely we will return with thee unto thy 
people. 
11  And Naomi said, Turn again, my daughters: why will ye go with 
 
me? are there yet any more sons in my womb, that they may be your 
 
husbands? 
 
12  Turn again, my daughters, go your way; for I am too old to have a 
 
husband. If I should say, I have hope, if I should have a husband 
also tonight, and should also bear sons; 
 
13  would ye tarry for them till they were grown? would ye stay for 
 
them from having husbands? nay, my daughters; for it grieveth me 
   
much for your sakes that the hand of the Lord is gone out against 
me. 
14  And they lifted up their voice, and wept again: and Orpah kissed 
 
her mother-in-law; but Ruth clave unto her. 
 
15  ¶ And she said, Behold, thy sister-in-law is gone back unto her 
people, and unto her gods: return thou after thy sister-in-law. 
 
16  And Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee, or to return from 
following after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go; and where 
   
thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy 
 
God my God: 
 
17  where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried: the Lord do 
 
so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee and me. 
18  When she saw that she was steadfastly minded to go with her, then 
she left speaking unto her. 
19  ¶ So they two went until they came to Bethlehem. And it came to 
pass, when they were come to Bethlehem, that all the city was 
moved about them, and they said, Is this Naomi? 
 
20  And she said unto them, Call me not Naomi [pleasant], call me 
Mara [bitter]: for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me. 
 
21  I went out full, and the Lord hath brought me home again empty: 
 
why then call ye me Naomi, seeing the Lord hath testified against 
me, and the Almighty hath afflicted me? 
 
22  ¶ So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter-in-
law, with her, which returned out of the country of Moab: and they 
 
came to Bethlehem in the beginning of barley harvest. 