  1782    Ezekiel 16 
17  Thou hast also taken thy fair jewels of my gold and of my silver, 
which I had given thee, and madest to thyself images of men, and 
didst commit whoredom with them, 
18  and tookest thy broidered garments, and coveredst them: and thou 
 
hast set mine oil and mine incense before them. 
19  My meat also which I gave thee, fine flour, and oil, and honey, 
wherewith I fed thee, thou hast even set it before them for a sweet 
savor: and thus it was, saith the Lord God. 
 
20  Moreover thou hast taken thy sons and thy daughters, whom thou 
hast borne unto me, and these hast thou sacrificed unto them to be 
devoured. Is this of thy whoredoms a small matter, 
21  that thou hast slain my children, and delivered them to cause them 
to pass through the fire for them? 
 
22  And in all thine abominations and thy whoredoms thou hast not 
remembered the days of thy youth, when thou wast naked and 
bare, and wast polluted in thy blood. 
23  ¶ And it came to pass after all thy wickedness, (woe, woe unto thee! 
 
saith the Lord God,) 
24  that thou hast also built unto thee an eminent place, and hast made 
thee a high place in every street. 
25  Thou hast built thy high place at every head of the way, and hast 
made thy beauty to be abhorred, and hast opened thy feet to every 
one that passed by, and multiplied thy whoredoms. 
26  Thou hast also committed fornication with the Egyptians thy 
neighbors, great of flesh; and hast increased thy whoredoms, to 
 
provoke me to anger. 
27  Behold, therefore I have stretched out my hand over thee, and have 
diminished thine ordinary food, and delivered thee unto the will of 
them that hate thee, the daughters of the Philistines, which are 
ashamed of thy lewd way. 
28  Thou hast played the whore also with the Assyrians, because thou 
wast unsatiable; yea, thou hast played the harlot with them, and 
 
yet couldest not be satisfied. 
29  Thou hast moreover multiplied thy fornication in the land of 
Canaan unto Chaldea; and yet thou wast not satisfied herewith. 
 