  163    Exodus 16 
13  ¶ And it came to pass, that at even the quails came up, and covered 
the camp: and in the morning the dew lay round about the host. 
 
14  And when the dew that lay was gone up, behold, upon the face of 
the wilderness there lay a small round thing, as small as the hoar 
frost on the ground. 
15  And when the children of Israel saw it, they said one to another, It 
is manna: for they wist not what it was. And Moses said unto them, 
 
This is the bread which the Lord hath given you to eat. 
16  This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded, Gather of it 
every man according to his eating, an omer for every man, according 
to the number of your persons; take ye every man for them which 
 
are in his tents. 
17  And the children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, some 
less. 
18  And when they did mete it with an omer, he that gathered much 
had nothing over, and he that gathered little had no lack; they 
 
gathered every man according to his eating. 
19  And Moses said, Let no man leave of it till the morning. 
20  Notwithstanding they hearkened not unto Moses; but some of 
 
them left of it until the morning, and it bred worms, and stank: 
 
and Moses was wroth with them. 
21  And they gathered it every morning, every man according to his 
eating: and when the sun waxed hot, it melted. 
 
22  ¶ And it came to pass, that on the sixth day they gathered twice as 
much bread, two omers for one man: and all the rulers of the 
 
congregation came and told Moses. 
23  And he said unto them, This is that which the Lord hath said, 
Tomorrow is the rest of the holy sabbath unto the Lord: bake that 
 
which ye will bake today, and seethe that ye will seethe; and that 
 
which remaineth over lay up for you to be kept until the morning. 
24  And they laid it up till the morning, as Moses bade: and it did not 
 
stink, neither was there any worm therein. 
25  And Moses said, Eat that today; for today is a sabbath unto the 
 
Lord: today ye shall not find it in the field. 
 