  837    2 Kings 3 
6  And king Jehoram went out of Samaria the same time, and 
numbered all Israel. 
7  And he went and sent to Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, saying, 
The king of Moab hath rebelled against me: wilt thou go with me 
 
against Moab to battle? And he said, I will go up: I am as thou art, 
   
my people as thy people, and my horses as thy horses. 
8  And he said, Which way shall we go up? And he answered, The 
 
way through the wilderness of Edom. 
9  ¶ So the king of Israel went, and the king of Judah, and the king of 
Edom: and they fetched a compass of seven days’ journey: and 
   
there was no water for the host, and for the cattle that followed 
them. 
10  And the king of Israel said, Alas! that the Lord hath called these 
 
three kings together, to deliver them into the hand of Moab! 
 
11  But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the Lord, that 
we may inquire of the Lord by him? And one of the king of Israel’s 
 
servants answered and said, Here is Elisha the son of Shaphat, 
which poured water on the hands of Elijah. 
12  And Jehoshaphat said, The word of the Lord is with him. So the 
king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went down to 
him. 
13  ¶ And Elisha said unto the king of Israel, What have I to do with 
thee? get thee to the prophets of thy father, and to the prophets of 
 
thy mother. And the king of Israel said unto him, Nay: for the 
 
Lord hath called these three kings together, to deliver them into 
the hand of Moab. 
14  And Elisha said, As the Lord of hosts liveth, before whom I stand, 
surely, were it not that I regard the presence of Jehoshaphat the 
king of Judah, I would not look toward thee, nor see thee. 
15  But now bring me a minstrel. And it came to pass, when the 
minstrel played, that the hand of the Lord came upon him. 
16  And he said, Thus saith the Lord, Make this valley full of ditches. 
17  For thus saith the Lord, Ye shall not see wind, neither shall ye see 
rain; yet that valley shall be filled with water, that ye may drink, 
 
both ye, and your cattle, and your beasts. 