  1900    Daniel 11 
he shall set forth a great multitude; but the multitude shall be given 
 
into his hand. 
12  And when he hath taken away the multitude, his heart shall be 
lifted up; and he shall cast down many ten thousands: but he shall 
   
not be strengthened by it. 
13  For the king of the north shall return, and shall set forth a 
multitude greater than the former, and shall certainly come after 
certain years with a great army and with much riches. 
14  ¶ And in those times there shall many stand up against the king of 
the south: also the robbers of thy people shall exalt themselves to 
 
establish the vision; but they shall fall. 
 
15  So the king of the north shall come, and cast up a mount, and take 
the most fenced cities: and the arms of the south shall not 
 
withstand, neither his chosen people, neither shall there be any 
strength to withstand. 
16  But he that cometh against him shall do according to his own will, 
and none shall stand before him: and he shall stand in the glorious 
 
land, which by his hand shall be consumed. 
17  He shall also set his face to enter with the strength of his whole 
kingdom, and upright ones with him; thus shall he do: and he shall 
   
give him the daughter of women, corrupting her: but she shall not 
 
stand on his side, neither be for him. 
18  After this shall he turn his face unto the isles, and shall take many: 
 
but a prince for his own behalf shall cause the reproach offered by 
him to cease; without his own reproach he shall cause it to turn 
 
upon him. 
19  Then he shall turn his face toward the fort of his own land: but he 
 
shall stumble and fall, and not be found. 
20  ¶ Then shall stand up in his estate a raiser of taxes in the glory of 
the kingdom: but within few days he shall be destroyed, neither in 
 
anger, nor in battle. 
21  And in his estate shall stand up a vile person, to whom they shall 
not give the honor of the kingdom: but he shall come in peaceably, 
 
and obtain the kingdom by flatteries. 