  710    2 Samuel 7 
11  and as since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people 
Israel, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies. Also the 
Lord telleth thee that he will make thee a house. 
12  And when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy 
fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of 
thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. 
13  He shall build a house for my name, and I will stablish the throne 
of his kingdom for ever. 
14  I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commit iniquity, I 
will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the 
children of men: 
 
15  but my mercy shall not depart away from him, as I took it from 
Saul, whom I put away before thee. 
16  And thine house and thy kingdom shall be established for ever 
before thee: thy throne shall be established for ever. 
 
17  According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did 
Nathan speak unto David. 
18  ¶ Then went king David in, and sat before the Lord, and he said, 
Who am I, O Lord God? and what is my house, that thou hast 
 
brought me hitherto? 
 
19  And this was yet a small thing in thy sight, O Lord God; but thou 
 
hast spoken also of thy servant’s house for a great while to come. 
And is this the manner of man, O Lord God? 
 
20  And what can David say more unto thee? for thou, Lord God, 
 
knowest thy servant. 
21  For thy word’s sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou 
done all these great things, to make thy servant know them. 
22  Wherefore thou art great, O Lord God: for there is none like thee, 
 
neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that we have 
heard with our ears. 
23  And what one nation in the earth is like thy people, even like Israel, 
whom God went to redeem for a people to himself, and to make 
him a name, and to do for you great things and terrible, for thy 
land, before thy people, which thou redeemedst to thee from 
Egypt, from the nations and their gods? 
 