  335    Numbers 11 
10  ¶ Then Moses heard the people weep throughout their families, 
every man in the door of his tent: and the anger of the Lord was 
 
kindled greatly; Moses also was displeased. 
 
11  And Moses said unto the Lord, Wherefore hast thou afflicted thy 
servant? and wherefore have I not found favor in thy sight, that 
 
thou layest the burden of all this people upon me? 
 
12  Have I conceived all this people? have I begotten them, that thou 
 
shouldest say unto me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing 
father beareth the sucking child, unto the land which thou swarest 
unto their fathers? 
 
13  Whence should I have flesh to give unto all this people? for they 
 
weep unto me, saying, Give us flesh, that we may eat. 
14  I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy for 
me. 
15  And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of hand, if I 
have found favor in thy sight; and let me not see my wretchedness. 
 
16  ¶ And the Lord said unto Moses, Gather unto me seventy men of 
the elders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be the elders of the 
people, and officers over them; and bring them unto the tabernacle 
 
of the congregation, that they may stand there with thee. 
17  And I will come down and talk with thee there: and I will take of 
 
the spirit which is upon thee, and will put it upon them; and they 
 
shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that thou bear it not 
thyself alone. 
18  And say thou unto the people, Sanctify yourselves against 
tomorrow, and ye shall eat flesh: for ye have wept in the ears of the 
 
Lord, saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? for it was well with us 
 
in Egypt: therefore the Lord will give you flesh, and ye shall eat. 
 
19  Ye shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten 
days, nor twenty days; 
 
20  but even a whole month, until it come out at your nostrils, and it be 
loathsome unto you: because that ye have despised the Lord 
 
which is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why came 
we forth out of Egypt? 
 