  1557    Isaiah 37 
23  Whom hast thou reproached and blasphemed? and against whom 
 
hast thou exalted thy voice, and lifted up thine eyes on high? even 
 
against the Holy One of Israel. 
24  By thy servants hast thou reproached the Lord, and hast said, By 
the multitude of my chariots am I come up to the height of the 
mountains, to the sides of Lebanon; and I will cut down the tall 
 
cedars thereof, and the choice fir trees thereof: and I will enter into 
 
the height of his border, and the forest of his Carmel. 
25  I have digged, and drunk water; and with the sole of my feet have I 
 
dried up all the rivers of the besieged places. 
26  ¶ Hast thou not heard long ago, how I have done it; and of ancient 
 
times, that I have formed it? now have I brought it to pass, that 
 
thou shouldest be to lay waste defensed cities into ruinous heaps. 
27  Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they were 
dismayed and confounded: they were as the grass of the field, and 
 
as the green herb, as the grass on the housetops, and as corn blasted 
before it be grown up. 
28  But I know thy abode, and thy going out, and thy coming in, and 
thy rage against me. 
29  Because thy rage against me, and thy tumult, is come up into mine 
ears, therefore will I put my hook in thy nose, and my bridle in thy 
lips, and I will turn thee back by the way by which thou camest. 
30  ¶ And this shall be a sign unto thee, Ye shall eat this year such as 
groweth of itself; and the second year that which springeth of the 
 
same: and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant vineyards, 
 
and eat the fruit thereof. 
31  And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shall again 
take root downward, and bear fruit upward: 
 
32  for out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and they that escape 
out of mount Zion: the zeal of the Lord of hosts shall do this. 
 
33  ¶ Therefore thus saith the Lord concerning the king of Assyria, He 
shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come 
before it with shields, nor cast a bank against it. 
34  By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and shall not 
come into this city, saith the Lord. 