  843    2 Kings 5 
2  And the Syrians had gone out by companies, and had brought away 
captive out of the land of Israel a little maid; and she waited on 
 
Naaman’s wife. 
3  And she said unto her mistress, Would God my lord were with the 
prophet that is in Samaria! for he would recover him of his leprosy. 
 
4  And one went in, and told his lord, saying, Thus and thus said the 
maid that is of the land of Israel. 
5  And the king of Syria said, Go to, go, and I will send a letter unto 
the king of Israel. 
¶ And he departed, and took with him ten talents of silver, and six 
thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes of raiment. 
6  And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, Now when 
this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent Naaman 
my servant to thee, that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy. 
7  And it came to pass, when the king of Israel had read the letter, that 
he rent his clothes, and said, Am I God, to kill and to make alive, 
that this man doth send unto me to recover a man of his leprosy? 
 
Wherefore consider, I pray you, and see how he seeketh a quarrel 
against me. 
8  ¶ And it was so, when Elisha the man of God had heard that the 
king of Israel had rent his clothes, that he sent to the king, saying, 
Wherefore hast thou rent thy clothes? let him come now to me, 
 
and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel. 
9  So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot, and stood at 
the door of the house of Elisha. 
10  And Elisha sent a messenger unto him, saying, Go and wash in 
Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and 
thou shalt be clean. 
11  But Naaman was wroth, and went away, and said, Behold, I 
thought, He will surely come out to me, and stand, and call on the 
name of the Lord his God, and strike his hand over the place, and 
recover the leper. 
12  Are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, better than all the 
waters of Israel? may I not wash in them, and be clean? So he 
   
turned and went away in a rage. 