  979    2 Chronicles 4 
3  And under it was the similitude of oxen, which did compass it 
round about: ten in a cubit, compassing the sea round about. Two 
 
rows of oxen were cast, when it was cast. 
4  It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and 
three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, 
and three looking toward the east: and the sea was set above upon 
 
them, and all their hinder parts were inward. 
5  And the thickness of it was a handbreadth, and the brim of it like 
the work of the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies; and it received 
 
and held three thousand baths. 
6  He made also ten lavers, and put five on the right hand, and five on 
the left, to wash in them: such things as they offered for the burnt 
 
offering they washed in them; but the sea was for the priests to 
 
wash in. 
7  ¶ And he made ten candlesticks of gold according to their form, and 
set them in the temple, five on the right hand, and five on the left. 
8  He made also ten tables, and placed them in the temple, five on the 
right side, and five on the left. And he made a hundred basins of 
gold. 
9  Furthermore he made the court of the priests, and the great court, 
and doors for the court, and overlaid the doors of them with brass. 
10  And he set the sea on the right side of the east end, over against the 
south. 
11  ¶ And Huram made the pots, and the shovels, and the basins. And 
Huram finished the work that he was to make for king Solomon for 
the house of God; 
 
12  to wit, the two pillars, and the pommels, and the chapiters which 
were on the top of the two pillars, and the two wreaths to cover the 
two pommels of the chapiters which were on the top of the pillars; 
 
13  and four hundred pomegranates on the two wreaths; two rows of 
 
pomegranates on each wreath, to cover the two pommels of the 
chapiters which were upon the pillars. 
14  He made also bases, and lavers made he upon the bases; 
 
15  one sea, and twelve oxen under it. 