  802    1 Kings 13 
22  but camest back, and hast eaten bread and drunk water in the place, 
of the which the Lord did say to thee, Eat no bread, and drink no 
water; thy carcass shall not come unto the sepulchre of thy fathers. 
 
23  And it came to pass, after he had eaten bread, and after he had 
drunk, that he saddled for him the ass, to wit, for the prophet whom 
he had brought back. 
24  And when he was gone, a lion met him by the way, and slew him: 
 
and his carcass was cast in the way, and the ass stood by it, the lion 
also stood by the carcass. 
25  And, behold, men passed by, and saw the carcass cast in the way, 
and the lion standing by the carcass: and they came and told it in 
 
the city where the old prophet dwelt. 
26  ¶ And when the prophet that brought him back from the way heard 
thereof, he said, It is the man of God, who was disobedient unto the 
word of the Lord: therefore the Lord hath delivered him unto 
 
the lion, which hath torn him, and slain him, according to the 
word of the Lord, which he spake unto him. 
27  And he spake to his sons, saying, Saddle me the ass. And they 
saddled him. 
28  And he went and found his carcass cast in the way, and the ass and 
the lion standing by the carcass: the lion had not eaten the carcass, 
 
nor torn the ass. 
29  And the prophet took up the carcass of the man of God, and laid it 
upon the ass, and brought it back: and the old prophet came to the 
 
city, to mourn and to bury him. 
30  And he laid his carcass in his own grave; and they mourned over 
 
him, saying, Alas, my brother! 
 
31  And it came to pass, after he had buried him, that he spake to his 
sons, saying, When I am dead, then bury me in the sepulchre 
wherein the man of God is buried; lay my bones beside his bones: 
   
32  for the saying which he cried by the word of the Lord against the 
altar in Beth-el, and against all the houses of the high places which 
are in the cities of Samaria, shall surely come to pass. 
33  ¶ After this thing Jeroboam returned not from his evil way, but 
made again of the lowest of the people priests of the high places: 
 