  1651    Jeremiah 18 
3  Then I went down to the potter’s house, and, behold, he wrought a 
work on the wheels. 
4  And the vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hand of the 
potter: so he made it again another vessel, as seemed good to the 
 
potter to make it. 
5  ¶ Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
6  O house of Israel, cannot I do with you as this potter? saith the 
 
Lord. Behold, as the clay is in the potter’s hand, so are ye in mine 
hand, O house of Israel. 
7  At what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, and concerning a 
kingdom, to pluck up, and to pull down, and to destroy it; 
 
8  if that nation, against whom I have pronounced, turn from their 
evil, I will repent of the evil that I thought to do unto them. 
9  And at what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, and 
concerning a kingdom, to build and to plant it; 
 
10  if it do evil in my sight, that it obey not my voice, then I will repent 
of the good, wherewith I said I would benefit them. 
11  Now therefore go to, speak to the men of Judah, and to the 
inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying, Thus saith the Lord; Behold, I 
 
frame evil against you, and devise a device against you: return ye 
 
now every one from his evil way, and make your ways and your 
doings good. 
12  ¶ And they said, There is no hope: but we will walk after our own 
 
devices, and we will every one do the imagination of his evil heart. 
13  ¶ Therefore thus saith the Lord; Ask ye now among the heathen, 
 
who hath heard such things: the virgin of Israel hath done a very 
 
horrible thing. 
14  Will a man leave the snow of Lebanon which cometh from the rock of 
the field? or shall the cold flowing waters that come from another 
 
place be forsaken? 
 
15  Because my people hath forgotten me, they have burned incense to 
vanity, and they have caused them to stumble in their ways from the 
ancient paths, to walk in paths, in a way not cast up; 
 
16  to make their land desolate, and a perpetual hissing; every one that 
 
passeth thereby shall be astonished, and wag his head. 