  1859    Ezekiel 45 
the breadth shall be ten thousand. This shall be holy in all the 
borders thereof round about. 
2  Of this there shall be for the sanctuary five hundred in length, with 
five hundred in breadth, square round about; and fifty cubits round 
 
about for the suburbs thereof. 
3  And of this measure shalt thou measure the length of five and 
twenty thousand, and the breadth of ten thousand: and in it shall 
 
be the sanctuary and the most holy place. 
4  The holy portion of the land shall be for the priests the ministers of 
the sanctuary, which shall come near to minister unto the Lord: 
 
and it shall be a place for their houses, and a holy place for the 
sanctuary. 
5  And the five and twenty thousand of length, and the ten thousand 
of breadth, shall also the Levites, the ministers of the house, have 
for themselves, for a possession for twenty chambers. 
6  ¶ And ye shall appoint the possession of the city five thousand 
broad, and five and twenty thousand long, over against the 
oblation of the holy portion: it shall be for the whole house of Israel. 
 
7  ¶ And a portion shall be for the prince on the one side and on the 
other side of the oblation of the holy portion, and of the possession 
of the city, before the oblation of the holy portion, and before the 
possession of the city, from the west side westward, and from the 
east side eastward: and the length shall be over against one of the 
 
portions, from the west border unto the east border. 
8  In the land shall be his possession in Israel: and my princes shall no 
 
more oppress my people; and the rest of the land shall they give to 
 
the house of Israel according to their tribes. 
9  ¶ Thus saith the Lord God; Let it suffice you, O princes of Israel: 
   
remove violence and spoil, and execute judgment and justice, take 
away your exactions from my people, saith the Lord God. 
10  ¶ Ye shall have just balances, and a just ephah, and a just bath.  
11  The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, that the bath may 
contain the tenth part of a homer, and the ephah the tenth part of a 
homer: the measure thereof shall be after the homer. 
 