  2323    Acts 7 
5  And he gave him none inheritance in it, no, not so much as to set his 
foot on: yet he promised that he would give it to him for a 
 
possession, and to his seed after him, when as yet he had no child. 
6  And God spake on this wise, That his seed should sojourn in a 
strange land; and that they should bring them into bondage, and 
 
entreat them evil four hundred years. 
7  And the nation to whom they shall be in bondage will I judge, said 
God: and after that shall they come forth, and serve me in this 
 
place.  
8  And he gave him the covenant of circumcision: and so Abraham 
 
begat Isaac, and circumcised him the eighth day; and Isaac begat 
 
Jacob; and Jacob begat the twelve patriarchs.  
 
9  ¶ And the patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph into Egypt: but 
 
God was with him,  
10  and delivered him out of all his afflictions, and gave him favor and 
wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and he made him 
 
governor over Egypt and all his house.  
11  Now there came a dearth over all the land of Egypt and Canaan, 
and great affliction: and our fathers found no sustenance.  
 
12  But when Jacob heard that there was corn in Egypt, he sent out our 
fathers first.  
13  And at the second time Joseph was made known to his brethren; 
 
and Joseph’s kindred was made known unto Pharaoh.  
14  Then sent Joseph, and called his father Jacob to him, and all his 
kindred, threescore and fifteen souls.  
15  So Jacob went down into Egypt, and died, he, and our fathers, 
16  and were carried over into Shechem, and laid in the sepulchre that 
Abraham bought for a sum of money of the sons of Hamor, the 
father of Shechem.  
17  ¶ But when the time of the promise drew nigh, which God had 
sworn to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt, 
18  till another king arose, which knew not Joseph.  
19  The same dealt subtilely with our kindred, and evil entreated our 
fathers, so that they cast out their young children, to the end they 
might not live.  