  698    2 Samuel 2 
that place was called Helkath-hazzurim [the field of strong men], 
which is in Gibeon. 
17  And there was a very sore battle that day; and Abner was beaten, 
 
and the men of Israel, before the servants of David. 
18  ¶ And there were three sons of Zeruiah there, Joab, and Abishai, 
and Asahel: and Asahel was as light of foot as a wild roe. 
 
19  And Asahel pursued after Abner; and in going he turned not to the 
 
right hand nor to the left from following Abner. 
20  Then Abner looked behind him, and said, Art thou Asahel? And he 
 
answered, I am. 
21  And Abner said to him, Turn thee aside to thy right hand or to thy 
left, and lay thee hold on one of the young men, and take thee his 
armor. But Asahel would not turn aside from following of him. 
22  And Abner said again to Asahel, Turn thee aside from following 
me: wherefore should I smite thee to the ground? how then should 
   
I hold up my face to Joab thy brother? 
 
23  Howbeit he refused to turn aside: wherefore Abner with the hinder 
 
end of the spear smote him under the fifth rib, that the spear came 
out behind him; and he fell down there, and died in the same 
 
place: and it came to pass, that as many as came to the place where 
 
Asahel fell down and died stood still. 
24  ¶ Joab also and Abishai pursued after Abner: and the sun went 
 
down when they were come to the hill of Ammah, that lieth before 
Giah by the way of the wilderness of Gibeon. 
25  And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together after 
Abner, and became one troop, and stood on the top of a hill. 
26  Then Abner called to Joab, and said, Shall the sword devour for 
ever? knowest thou not that it will be bitterness in the latter end? 
   
how long shall it be then, ere thou bid the people return from 
following their brethren? 
 
27  And Joab said, As God liveth, unless thou hadst spoken, surely then 
in the morning the people had gone up every one from following 
his brother. 
28  So Joab blew a trumpet, and all the people stood still, and pursued 
after Israel no more, neither fought they any more. 