  1761    Ezekiel 5 
6  And she hath changed my judgments into wickedness more than 
the nations, and my statutes more than the countries that are round 
about her: for they have refused my judgments and my statutes, 
 
they have not walked in them. 
7  Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Because ye multiplied more 
 
than the nations that are round about you, and have not walked in 
my statutes, neither have kept my judgments, neither have done 
according to the judgments of the nations that are round about you; 
 
8  therefore thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I, even I, am against 
 
thee, and will execute judgments in the midst of thee in the sight of 
the nations. 
9  And I will do in thee that which I have not done, and whereunto I 
will not do any more the like, because of all thine abominations. 
10  Therefore the fathers shall eat the sons in the midst of thee, and the 
sons shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgments in thee, 
 
and the whole remnant of thee will I scatter into all the winds. 
11  Wherefore, as I live, saith the Lord God; Surely, because thou hast 
 
defiled my sanctuary with all thy detestable things, and with all 
thine abominations, therefore will I also diminish thee; neither 
 
shall mine eye spare, neither will I have any pity. 
12  A third part of thee shall die with the pestilence, and with famine 
shall they be consumed in the midst of thee: and a third part shall 
 
fall by the sword round about thee; and I will scatter a third part 
 
into all the winds, and I will draw out a sword after them. 
13  ¶ Thus shall mine anger be accomplished, and I will cause my fury 
to rest upon them, and I will be comforted: and they shall know 
 
that I the Lord have spoken it in my zeal, when I have 
accomplished my fury in them. 
14  Moreover I will make thee waste, and a reproach among the 
nations that are round about thee, in the sight of all that pass by. 
15  So it shall be a reproach and a taunt, an instruction and an 
astonishment unto the nations that are round about thee, when I 
shall execute judgments in thee in anger and in fury and in furious 
rebukes. I the Lord have spoken it. 