  1014    2 Chronicles 21 
3  And their father gave them great gifts of silver, and of gold, and of 
precious things, with fenced cities in Judah: but the kingdom gave 
 
he to Jehoram; because he was the firstborn. 
 
4  Now when Jehoram was risen up to the kingdom of his father, he 
strengthened himself, and slew all his brethren with the sword, and 
divers also of the princes of Israel. 
5  Jehoram was thirty and two years old when he began to reign, and 
he reigned eight years in Jerusalem. 
6  And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, like as did the 
house of Ahab: for he had the daughter of Ahab to wife: and he 
   
wrought that which was evil in the eyes of the Lord. 
7  Howbeit the Lord would not destroy the house of David, because 
of the covenant that he had made with David, and as he promised 
to give a light to him and to his sons for ever.  
8  ¶ In his days the Edomites revolted from under the dominion of 
Judah, and made themselves a king. 
9  Then Jehoram went forth with his princes, and all his chariots with 
him: and he rose up by night, and smote the Edomites which 
 
compassed him in, and the captains of the chariots. 
10  So the Edomites revolted from under the hand of Judah unto this 
day. The same time also did Libnah revolt from under his hand; 
 
because he had forsaken the Lord God of his fathers. 
11  ¶ Moreover he made high places in the mountains of Judah, and 
caused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to commit fornication, and 
compelled Judah thereto. 
12  And there came a writing to him from Elijah the prophet, saying, 
Thus saith the Lord God of David thy father, Because thou hast 
not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat thy father, nor in the ways 
of Asa king of Judah, 
13  but hast walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and hast made 
Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to go a whoring, like to the 
whoredoms of the house of Ahab, and also hast slain thy brethren 
of thy father’s house, which were better than thyself: 
 
14  behold, with a great plague will the Lord smite thy people, and 
thy children, and thy wives, and all thy goods: 
 