  957    1 Chronicles 23 
17  And the sons of Eliezer were, Rehabiah the chief. And Eliezer had 
none other sons; but the sons of Rehabiah were very many. 
 
18  Of the sons of Izhar; Shelomith the chief. 
 
19  Of the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, 
 
Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 
20  Of the sons of Uzziel; Micah the first, and Jesiah the second. 
 
21  ¶ The sons of Merari; Mahli, and Mushi. The sons of Mahli; 
   
Eleazar, and Kish. 
22  And Eleazar died, and had no sons, but daughters: and their 
 
brethren the sons of Kish took them. 
23  The sons of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three. 
 
24  ¶ These were the sons of Levi after the house of their fathers; even 
 
the chief of the fathers, as they were counted by number of names 
by their polls, that did the work for the service of the house of the 
Lord, from the age of twenty years and upward. 
25  For David said, The Lord God of Israel hath given rest unto his 
people, that they may dwell in Jerusalem for ever: 
 
26  and also unto the Levites: they shall no more carry the tabernacle, 
 
nor any vessels of it for the service thereof.  
27  For by the last words of David the Levites were numbered from 
twenty years old and above: 
 
28  because their office was to wait on the sons of Aaron for the service 
of the house of the Lord, in the courts, and in the chambers, and 
in the purifying of all holy things, and the work of the service of 
the house of God: 
 
29  both for the showbread, and for the fine flour for meat offering, 
and for the unleavened cakes, and for that which is baked in the pan, 
and for that which is fried, and for all manner of measure and size; 
 
30  and to stand every morning to thank and praise the Lord, and 
likewise at even; 
 
31  and to offer all burnt sacrifices unto the Lord in the sabbaths, in 
the new moons, and on the set feasts, by number, according to the 
order commanded unto them, continually before the Lord: 
 
32  and that they should keep the charge of the tabernacle of the 
congregation, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge of the 