  725    2 Samuel 14 
2  And Joab sent to Tekoah, and fetched thence a wise woman, and 
said unto her, I pray thee, feign thyself to be a mourner, and put on 
now mourning apparel, and anoint not thyself with oil, but be as a 
woman that had a long time mourned for the dead: 
 
3  and come to the king, and speak on this manner unto him. So Joab 
put the words in her mouth. 
4  ¶ And when the woman of Tekoah spake to the king, she fell on her 
face to the ground, and did obeisance, and said, Help, O king. 
5  And the king said unto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, I 
 
am indeed a widow woman, and mine husband is dead. 
6  And thy handmaid had two sons, and they two strove together in 
the field, and there was none to part them, but the one smote the 
other, and slew him. 
7  And, behold, the whole family is risen against thine handmaid, and 
they said, Deliver him that smote his brother, that we may kill 
him, for the life of his brother whom he slew; and we will destroy 
 
the heir also: and so they shall quench my coal which is left, and 
 
shall not leave to my husband neither name nor remainder upon the 
earth. 
8  ¶ And the king said unto the woman, Go to thine house, and I will 
give charge concerning thee. 
9  And the woman of Tekoah said unto the king, My lord, O king, the 
iniquity be on me, and on my father’s house: and the king and his 
 
throne be guiltless. 
10  And the king said, Whosoever saith aught unto thee, bring him to 
me, and he shall not touch thee any more. 
11  Then said she, I pray thee, let the king remember the Lord thy 
God, that thou wouldest not suffer the revengers of blood to 
destroy any more, lest they destroy my son. And he said, As the 
Lord liveth, there shall not one hair of thy son fall to the earth. 
12  ¶ Then the woman said, Let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak one 
word unto my lord the king. And he said, Say on. 
13  And the woman said, Wherefore then hast thou thought such a 
thing against the people of God? for the king doth speak this thing 
 