  82    Genesis 34 
5  And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter: now his 
 
sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until 
 
they were come. 
6  And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to 
commune with him. 
7  And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it: and 
 
the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, because he had 
wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob’s daughter; which thing 
 
ought not to be done. 
8  ¶ And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son 
Shechem longeth for your daughter: I pray you give her him to 
 
wife. 
9  And make ye marriages with us, and give your daughters unto us, 
and take our daughters unto you. 
10  And ye shall dwell with us: and the land shall be before you; dwell 
   
and trade ye therein, and get you possessions therein. 
11  And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren, Let me 
find grace in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me I will give. 
12  Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according as 
ye shall say unto me: but give me the damsel to wife. 
 
13  ¶ And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father 
deceitfully, and said, because he had defiled Dinah their sister: 
 
14  and they said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give our sister 
to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach unto us: 
   
15  but in this will we consent unto you: If ye will be as we be, that 
 
every male of you be circumcised; 
 
16  then will we give our daughters unto you, and we will take your 
daughters to us, and we will dwell with you, and we will become 
one people. 
17  But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; then will we 
 
take our daughter, and we will be gone. 
18  ¶ And their words pleased Hamor and Shechem Hamor’s son. 
19  And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had 
delight in Jacob’s daughter: and he was more honorable than all the 
 
house of his father. 