  264    Leviticus 15 
9  And what saddle soever he rideth upon that hath the issue shall be 
unclean. 
10  And whosoever toucheth any thing that was under him shall be 
unclean until the even: and he that beareth any of those things shall 
 
wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until 
the even. 
11  And whomsoever he toucheth that hath the issue, and hath not 
rinsed his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe 
himself in water, and be unclean until the even. 
12  And the vessel of earth, that he toucheth which hath the issue, shall 
be broken: and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water. 
 
13  ¶ And when he that hath an issue is cleansed of his issue, then he 
shall number to himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his 
clothes, and bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean. 
14  And on the eighth day he shall take to him two turtledoves, or two 
young pigeons, and come before the Lord unto the door of the 
tabernacle of the congregation, and give them unto the priest: 
 
15  and the priest shall offer them, the one for a sin offering, and the 
other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make an atonement 
 
for him before the Lord for his issue. 
16  ¶ And if any man’s seed of copulation go out from him, then he 
shall wash all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the even. 
17  And every garment, and every skin, whereon is the seed of 
copulation, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the 
even. 
18  The woman also with whom man shall lie with seed of copulation, 
they shall both bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the 
even. 
19  ¶ And if a woman have an issue, and her issue in her flesh be blood, 
she shall be put apart seven days: and whosoever toucheth her shall 
 
be unclean until the even. 
20  And every thing that she lieth upon in her separation shall be 
unclean: every thing also that she sitteth upon shall be unclean. 
 
21  And whosoever toucheth her bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe 
himself in water, and be unclean until the even. 