  115    Genesis 47 
2  And he took some of his brethren, even five men, and presented 
them unto Pharaoh. 
3  And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What is your occupation? And 
 
they said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds, both we, and 
also our fathers. 
4  They said moreover unto Pharaoh, For to sojourn in the land are 
we come; for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks; for the 
   
famine is sore in the land of Canaan: now therefore, we pray thee, 
 
let thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen. 
5  And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy 
brethren are come unto thee: 
 
6  the land of Egypt is before thee; in the best of the land make thy 
 
father and brethren to dwell; in the land of Goshen let them dwell: 
   
and if thou knowest any men of activity among them, then make 
them rulers over my cattle. 
7  ¶ And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him before 
Pharaoh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh. 
 
8  And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou? 
 
9  And Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my 
pilgrimage are a hundred and thirty years: few and evil have the 
 
days of the years of my life been, and have not attained unto the 
days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their 
pilgrimage. 
10  And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh. 
11  And Joseph placed his father and his brethren, and gave them a 
possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land 
of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded. 
12  And Joseph nourished his father, and his brethren, and all his 
father’s household, with bread, according to their families. 
13  ¶ And there was no bread in all the land; for the famine was very 
 
sore, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by 
reason of the famine. 
14  And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of 
Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they bought: 
 
and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh’s house. 