  1728    Jeremiah 50 
24  I have laid a snare for thee, and thou art also taken, O Babylon, and 
thou wast not aware: thou art found, and also caught, because thou 
 
hast striven against the Lord. 
25  The Lord hath opened his armory, and hath brought forth the 
weapons of his indignation: for this is the work of the Lord God of 
 
hosts in the land of the Chaldeans. 
26  Come against her from the utmost border, open her storehouses: 
 
cast her up as heaps, and destroy her utterly: let nothing of her be 
 
left. 
27  Slay all her bullocks; let them go down to the slaughter: woe unto 
   
them! for their day is come, the time of their visitation. 
 
28  The voice of them that flee and escape out of the land of Babylon, 
to declare in Zion the vengeance of the Lord our God, the 
vengeance of his temple. 
29  ¶ Call together the archers against Babylon: all ye that bend the 
 
bow, camp against it round about; let none thereof escape: 
   
recompense her according to her work; according to all that she 
 
hath done, do unto her: for she hath been proud against the Lord, 
 
against the Holy One of Israel. 
30  Therefore shall her young men fall in the streets, and all her men of 
war shall be cut off in that day, saith the Lord. 
31  Behold, I am against thee, O thou most proud, saith the Lord God 
of hosts: for thy day is come, the time that I will visit thee. 
 
32  And the most proud shall stumble and fall, and none shall raise 
him up: and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it shall devour all 
 
round about him. 
33  ¶ Thus saith the Lord of hosts; The children of Israel and the 
 
children of Judah were oppressed together: and all that took them 
 
captives held them fast; they refused to let them go. 
 
34  Their Redeemer is strong; The Lord of hosts is his name: he shall 
   
thoroughly plead their cause, that he may give rest to the land, and 
disquiet the inhabitants of Babylon. 
35  ¶ A sword is upon the Chaldeans, saith the Lord, and upon the 
inhabitants of Babylon, and upon her princes, and upon her wise 
men. 