  742    2 Samuel 19 
34  And Barzillai said unto the king, How long have I to live, that I 
should go up with the king unto Jerusalem? 
 
35  I am this day fourscore years old: and can I discern between good 
 
and evil? can thy servant taste what I eat or what I drink? can I 
   
hear any more the voice of singing men and singing women? 
 
wherefore then should thy servant be yet a burden unto my lord 
the king? 
 
36  Thy servant will go a little way over Jordan with the king: and why 
 
should the king recompense it me with such a reward? 
 
37  Let thy servant, I pray thee, turn back again, that I may die in mine 
own city, and be buried by the grave of my father and of my mother. 
But behold thy servant Chimham; let him go over with my lord the 
 
king; and do to him what shall seem good unto thee. 
 
38  And the king answered, Chimham shall go over with me, and I will 
do to him that which shall seem good unto thee: and whatsoever 
 
thou shalt require of me, that will I do for thee. 
39  And all the people went over Jordan. And when the king was come 
over, the king kissed Barzillai, and blessed him; and he returned 
 
unto his own place. 
40  Then the king went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went on with him: 
 
and all the people of Judah conducted the king, and also half the 
people of Israel. 
41  ¶ And, behold, all the men of Israel came to the king, and said unto 
the king, Why have our brethren the men of Judah stolen thee 
away, and have brought the king, and his household, and all 
David’s men with him, over Jordan? 
 
42  And all the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, Because the 
king is near of kin to us: wherefore then be ye angry for this 
 
matter? have we eaten at all of the king’s cost? or hath he given us 
   
any gift? 
 
43  And the men of Israel answered the men of Judah, and said, We 
have ten parts in the king, and we have also more right in David 
than ye: why then did ye despise us, that our advice should not be 
 
first had in bringing back our king? And the words of the men of 
 
Judah were fiercer than the words of the men of Israel. 