  72    Genesis 30 
32  I will pass through all thy flock today, removing from thence all the 
speckled and spotted cattle, and all the brown cattle among the 
sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats: and of such 
 
shall be my hire. 
33  So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come, when it 
shall come for my hire before thy face: every one that is not 
 
speckled and spotted among the goats, and brown among the 
sheep, that shall be counted stolen with me. 
34  And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be according to thy word. 
35  And he removed that day the he goats that were ring-streaked and 
spotted, and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted, and 
every one that had some white in it, and all the brown among the 
sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons. 
36  And he set three days’ journey betwixt himself and Jacob: and Jacob 
 
fed the rest of Laban’s flocks. 
37  ¶ And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel and 
chestnut tree; and pilled white streaks in them, and made the white 
 
appear which was in the rods. 
38  And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the 
gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink, that 
they should conceive when they came to drink. 
39  And the flocks conceived before the rods, and brought forth cattle 
ring-streaked, speckled, and spotted. 
40  And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks 
toward the ring-streaked, and all the brown in the flock of Laban; 
 
and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not unto 
Laban’s cattle. 
41  And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive, 
that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters, 
that they might conceive among the rods. 
42  But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in: so the feebler 
 
were Laban’s, and the stronger Jacob’s. 
43  And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and 
maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses. 