  1007    2 Chronicles 18 
11  And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramoth-
gilead, and prosper: for the Lord shall deliver it into the hand of 
 
the king. 
12  ¶ And the messenger that went to call Micaiah spake to him, 
saying, Behold, the words of the prophets declare good to the king 
with one assent; let thy word therefore, I pray thee, be like one of 
 
theirs, and speak thou good. 
13  And Micaiah said, As the Lord liveth, even what my God saith, 
that will I speak. 
14  And when he was come to the king, the king said unto him, 
Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? 
 
And he said, Go ye up, and prosper, and they shall be delivered into 
your hand. 
15  And the king said to him, How many times shall I adjure thee that 
thou say nothing but the truth to me in the name of the Lord? 
 
16  Then he said, I did see all Israel scattered upon the mountains, as 
sheep that have no shepherd: and the Lord said, These have no 
 
master; let them return therefore every man to his house in peace. 
 
17  And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee that 
he would not prophesy good unto me, but evil? 
 
18  Again he said, Therefore hear the word of the Lord; I saw the 
 
Lord sitting upon his throne, and all the host of heaven standing 
on his right hand and on his left. 
19  And the Lord said, Who shall entice Ahab king of Israel, that he 
may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead? And one spake saying after 
 
this manner, and another saying after that manner. 
20  Then there came out a spirit, and stood before the Lord, and said, 
I will entice him. And the Lord said unto him, Wherewith? 
 
21  And he said, I will go out, and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all 
his prophets. And the Lord said, Thou shalt entice him, and thou 
shalt also prevail: go out, and do even so. 
 
22  Now therefore, behold, the Lord hath put a lying spirit in the 
mouth of these thy prophets, and the Lord hath spoken evil 
against thee. 