  780    1 Kings 7 
33  And the work of the wheels was like the work of a chariot wheel: 
 
their axletrees, and their naves, and their felloes, and their spokes, 
were all molten. 
34  And there were four undersetters to the four corners of one base: and 
 
the undersetters were of the very base itself. 
35  And in the top of the base was there a round compass of half a cubit 
high: and on the top of the base the ledges thereof and the borders 
 
thereof were of the same. 
36  For on the plates of the ledges thereof, and on the borders thereof, 
he graved cherubim, lions, and palm trees, according to the 
proportion of every one, and additions round about. 
37  After this manner he made the ten bases: all of them had one 
 
casting, one measure, and one size. 
38  ¶ Then made he ten lavers of brass: one laver contained forty baths: 
   
and every laver was four cubits: and upon every one of the ten bases 
 
one laver. 
39  And he put five bases on the right side of the house, and five on the 
left side of the house: and he set the sea on the right side of the 
 
house eastward, over against the south. 
40  ¶ And Hiram made the lavers, and the shovels, and the basins. So 
Hiram made an end of doing all the work that he made king 
Solomon for the house of the Lord: 
 
41  the two pillars, and the two bowls of the chapiters that were on the 
top of the two pillars; and the two networks, to cover the two bowls 
 
of the chapiters which were upon the top of the pillars; 
 
42  and four hundred pomegranates for the two networks, even two 
rows of pomegranates for one network, to cover the two bowls of 
the chapiters that were upon the pillars; 
 
43  and the ten bases, and ten lavers on the bases; 
 
44  and one sea, and twelve oxen under the sea. 
45  ¶ And the pots, and the shovels, and the basins: and all these 
 
vessels, which Hiram made to king Solomon for the house of the 
Lord, were of bright brass. 
46  In the plain of Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay ground 
between Succoth and Zarthan. 