  1046    2 Chronicles 34 
11  even to the artificers and builders gave they it, to buy hewn stone, 
and timber for couplings, and to floor the houses which the kings 
of Judah had destroyed. 
12  And the men did the work faithfully: and the overseers of them 
 
were Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites, of the sons of Merari; and 
 
Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to set it 
forward; and other of the Levites, all that could skill of instruments 
 
of music. 
13  Also they were over the bearers of burdens, and were overseers of all 
that wrought the work in any manner of service: and of the Levites 
 
there were scribes, and officers, and porters. 
14  ¶ And when they brought out the money that was brought into the 
house of the Lord, Hilkiah the priest found a book of the law of 
the Lord given by Moses. 
15  And Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the scribe, I have found 
the book of the law in the house of the Lord. And Hilkiah 
delivered the book to Shaphan. 
16  And Shaphan carried the book to the king, and brought the king 
word back again, saying, All that was committed to thy servants, 
they do it. 
17  And they have gathered together the money that was found in the 
house of the Lord, and have delivered it into the hand of the 
overseers, and to the hand of the workmen. 
18  Then Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest 
hath given me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king. 
19  ¶ And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the 
law, that he rent his clothes. 
20  And the king commanded Hilkiah, and Ahikam the son of 
Shaphan, and Abdon the son of Micah, and Shaphan the scribe, 
and Asaiah a servant of the king’s, saying, 
21  Go, inquire of the Lord for me, and for them that are left in Israel 
and in Judah, concerning the words of the book that is found: for 
 
great is the wrath of the Lord that is poured out upon us, because 
our fathers have not kept the word of the Lord, to do after all that 
is written in this book. 