  998    2 Chronicles 13 
2  He reigned three years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name also was 
Michaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. 
¶ And there was war between Abijah and Jeroboam. 
3  And Abijah set the battle in array with an army of valiant men of 
war, even four hundred thousand chosen men: Jeroboam also set 
 
the battle in array against him with eight hundred thousand chosen 
men, being mighty men of valor. 
4  And Abijah stood up upon mount Zemaraim, which is in mount 
Ephraim, and said, Hear me, thou Jeroboam, and all Israel; 
 
5  ought ye not to know that the Lord God of Israel gave the 
kingdom over Israel to David for ever, even to him and to his sons 
by a covenant of salt? 
 
6  Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the son of 
David, is risen up, and hath rebelled against his lord. 
7  And there are gathered unto him vain men, the children of Belial, 
and have strengthened themselves against Rehoboam the son of 
Solomon, when Rehoboam was young and tender-hearted, and 
could not withstand them. 
8  ¶ And now ye think to withstand the kingdom of the Lord in the 
hand of the sons of David; and ye be a great multitude, and there are 
 
with you golden calves, which Jeroboam made you for gods. 
9  Have ye not cast out the priests of the Lord, the sons of Aaron, and 
the Levites, and have made you priests after the manner of the 
nations of other lands? so that whosoever cometh to consecrate 
 
himself with a young bullock and seven rams, the same may be a 
priest of them that are no gods. 
10  But as for us, the Lord is our God, and we have not forsaken him; 
 
and the priests, which minister unto the Lord, are the sons of 
Aaron, and the Levites wait upon their business: 
 
11  and they burn unto the Lord every morning and every evening 
burnt sacrifices and sweet incense: the showbread also set they in 
 
order upon the pure table; and the candlestick of gold with the 
 
lamps thereof, to burn every evening: for we keep the charge of the 
 
Lord our God; but ye have forsaken him. 
 