  116    Genesis 47 
15  And when money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land of 
Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph, and said, Give us 
bread: for why should we die in thy presence? for the money 
   
faileth. 
16  And Joseph said, Give your cattle; and I will give you for your 
 
cattle, if money fail. 
17  And they brought their cattle unto Joseph: and Joseph gave them 
 
bread in exchange for horses, and for the flocks, and for the cattle of 
the herds, and for the asses; and he fed them with bread for all their 
 
cattle for that year. 
18  When that year was ended, they came unto him the second year, 
and said unto him, We will not hide it from my lord, how that our 
money is spent; my lord also hath our herds of cattle; there is not 
   
aught left in the sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our lands: 
 
19  wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land? 
 
buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants 
unto Pharaoh: and give us seed, that we may live, and not die, that 
 
the land be not desolate. 
20  ¶ And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for the 
 
Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed 
over them: so the land became Pharaoh’s. 
 
21  And as for the people, he removed them to cities from one end of 
the borders of Egypt even to the other end thereof. 
22  Only the land of the priests bought he not; for the priests had a 
 
portion assigned them of Pharaoh, and did eat their portion which 
Pharaoh gave them: wherefore they sold not their lands. 
 
23  Then Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have bought you this 
day and your land for Pharaoh: lo, here is seed for you, and ye shall 
 
sow the land. 
24  And it shall come to pass in the increase, that ye shall give the fifth 
part unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own, for seed of the 
field, and for your food, and for them of your households, and for 
food for your little ones. 
25  And they said, Thou hast saved our lives: let us find grace in the 
 
sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh’s servants. 