  816    1 Kings 18 
21  And Elijah came unto all the people, and said, How long halt ye 
between two opinions? if the Lord be God, follow him: but if Baal, 
   
then follow him. And the people answered him not a word. 
22  Then said Elijah unto the people, I, even I only, remain a prophet of 
the Lord; but Baal’s prophets are four hundred and fifty men. 
 
23  Let them therefore give us two bullocks; and let them choose one 
 
bullock for themselves, and cut it in pieces, and lay it on wood, and 
put no fire under: and I will dress the other bullock, and lay it on 
 
wood, and put no fire under: 
 
24  and call ye on the name of your gods, and I will call on the name of 
the Lord: and the God that answereth by fire, let him be God. And 
 
all the people answered and said, It is well spoken. 
25  And Elijah said unto the prophets of Baal, Choose you one bullock 
for yourselves, and dress it first; for ye are many; and call on the 
   
name of your gods, but put no fire under. 
26  And they took the bullock which was given them, and they dressed 
it, and called on the name of Baal from morning even until noon, 
saying, O Baal, hear us. But there was no voice, nor any that 
answered. And they leaped upon the altar which was made. 
27  And it came to pass at noon, that Elijah mocked them, and said, 
Cry aloud: for he is a god; either he is talking, or he is pursuing, or 
   
he is in a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth, and must be 
awaked. 
28  And they cried aloud, and cut themselves after their manner with 
knives and lancets, till the blood gushed out upon them. 
29  And it came to pass, when midday was past, and they prophesied 
until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that there was 
neither voice, nor any to answer, nor any that regarded. 
30  ¶ And Elijah said unto all the people, Come near unto me. And all 
the people came near unto him. And he repaired the altar of the 
Lord that was broken down. 
31  And Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the 
tribes of the sons of Jacob, unto whom the word of the Lord came, 
saying, Israel shall be thy name:  
 