  90    Genesis 37 
13  And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock in 
Shechem? come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to 
 
him, Here am I. 
14  And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy 
brethren, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again. So he 
 
sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. 
15  And a certain man found him, and, behold, he was wandering in 
the field: and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou? 
   
16  And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they 
 
feed their flocks. 
17  And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard them say, 
 
Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found 
them in Dothan. 
18  And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto 
them, they conspired against him to slay him. 
19  And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. 
20  Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some 
pit, and we will say, Some evil beast hath devoured him; and we 
 
shall see what will become of his dreams. 
21  And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands; and 
 
said, Let us not kill him. 
22  And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this 
pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him; that he 
 
might rid him out of their hands, to deliver him to his father again. 
23  And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that 
they stripped Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colors that was 
on him; 
 
24  and they took him, and cast him into a pit: and the pit was empty, 
 
there was no water in it. 
25  ¶ And they sat down to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyes and 
 
looked, and, behold, a company of Ishmaelites came from Gilead, 
with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to 
carry it down to Egypt. 
26  And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay our 
brother, and conceal his blood? 
 