  844    2 Kings 5 
13  And his servants came near, and spake unto him, and said, My 
father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest 
thou not have done it? how much rather then, when he saith to 
 
thee, Wash, and be clean? 
 
14  Then went he down, and dipped himself seven times in Jordan, 
according to the saying of the man of God: and his flesh came again 
 
like unto the flesh of a little child, and he was clean.  
15  ¶ And he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and 
came, and stood before him: and he said, Behold, now I know that 
 
there is no God in all the earth, but in Israel: now therefore, I pray 
 
thee, take a blessing of thy servant. 
16  But he said, As the Lord liveth, before whom I stand, I will receive 
none. And he urged him to take it; but he refused. 
 
17  And Naaman said, Shall there not then, I pray thee, be given to thy 
servant two mules’ burden of earth? for thy servant will henceforth 
 
offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice unto other gods, but unto 
the Lord. 
18  In this thing the Lord pardon thy servant, that when my master 
goeth into the house of Rimmon to worship there, and he leaneth 
on my hand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon: when I 
 
bow down myself in the house of Rimmon, the Lord pardon thy 
servant in this thing. 
19  And he said unto him, Go in peace. 
¶ So he departed from him a little way. 
20  But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha the man of God, said, Behold, my 
master hath spared Naaman this Syrian, in not receiving at his 
hands that which he brought: but, as the Lord liveth, I will run 
 
after him, and take somewhat of him. 
21  So Gehazi followed after Naaman. And when Naaman saw him 
running after him, he lighted down from the chariot to meet him, 
and said, Is all well? 
 
22  And he said, All is well. My master hath sent me, saying, Behold, 
even now there be come to me from mount Ephraim two young 
men of the sons of the prophets: give them, I pray thee, a talent of 
 
silver, and two changes of garments. 