  729    2 Samuel 15 
12  And Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David’s counselor, 
from his city, even from Giloh, while he offered sacrifices. And the 
conspiracy was strong; for the people increased continually with 
 
Absalom. 
13  ¶ And there came a messenger to David, saying, The hearts of the 
men of Israel are after Absalom. 
14  And David said unto all his servants that were with him at 
Jerusalem, Arise, and let us flee; for we shall not else escape from 
 
Absalom: make speed to depart, lest he overtake us suddenly, and 
 
bring evil upon us, and smite the city with the edge of the sword. 
15  And the king’s servants said unto the king, Behold, thy servants are 
ready to do whatsoever my lord the king shall appoint. 
16  And the king went forth, and all his household after him. And the 
king left ten women, which were concubines, to keep the house. 
17  And the king went forth, and all the people after him, and tarried 
in a place that was far off. 
18  And all his servants passed on beside him; and all the Cherethites, 
 
and all the Pelethites, and all the Gittites, six hundred men which 
came after him from Gath, passed on before the king. 
19  ¶ Then said the king to Ittai the Gittite, Wherefore goest thou also 
with us? return to thy place, and abide with the king: for thou art a 
   
stranger, and also an exile. 
20  Whereas thou camest but yesterday, should I this day make thee go 
up and down with us? seeing I go whither I may, return thou, and 
 
take back thy brethren: mercy and truth be with thee. 
 
21  And Ittai answered the king, and said, As the Lord liveth, and as 
my lord the king liveth, surely in what place my lord the king shall 
be, whether in death or life, even there also will thy servant be. 
22  And David said to Ittai, Go and pass over. And Ittai the Gittite 
passed over, and all his men, and all the little ones that were with 
him. 
23  And all the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people 
passed over: the king also himself passed over the brook Kidron, 
 
and all the people passed over, toward the way of the wilderness. 