  1787    Ezekiel 17 
14  that the kingdom might be base, that it might not lift itself up, but 
that by keeping of his covenant it might stand. 
15  But he rebelled against him in sending his ambassadors into Egypt, 
that they might give him horses and much people. Shall he 
prosper? shall he escape that doeth such things? or shall he break 
   
the covenant, and be delivered? 
 
16  As I live, saith the Lord God, surely in the place where the king 
dwelleth that made him king, whose oath he despised, and whose 
covenant he brake, even with him in the midst of Babylon he shall 
die. 
17  Neither shall Pharaoh with his mighty army and great company 
make for him in the war, by casting up mounts, and building forts, 
to cut off many persons: 
 
18  seeing he despised the oath by breaking the covenant, when, lo, he 
had given his hand, and hath done all these things, he shall not 
escape. 
19  Therefore thus saith the Lord God; As I live, surely mine oath that 
 
he hath despised, and my covenant that he hath broken, even it 
will I recompense upon his own head. 
20  And I will spread my net upon him, and he shall be taken in my 
snare, and I will bring him to Babylon, and will plead with him 
there for his trespass that he hath trespassed against me. 
21  And all his fugitives with all his bands shall fall by the sword, and 
they that remain shall be scattered toward all winds: and ye shall 
 
know that I the Lord have spoken it. 
22  ¶ Thus saith the Lord God; I will also take of the highest branch of 
 
the high cedar, and will set it; I will crop off from the top of his 
 
young twigs a tender one, and will plant it upon a high mountain 
and eminent: 
 
23  in the mountain of the height of Israel will I plant it: and it shall 
 
bring forth boughs, and bear fruit, and be a goodly cedar: and 
 
under it shall dwell all fowl of every wing; in the shadow of the 
 
branches thereof shall they dwell. 
24  And all the trees of the field shall know that I the Lord have 
brought down the high tree, have exalted the low tree, have dried 