  354    Numbers 18 
5  And ye shall keep the charge of the sanctuary, and the charge of the 
altar; that there be no wrath any more upon the children of Israel. 
 
6  And I, behold, I have taken your brethren the Levites from among 
the children of Israel: to you they are given as a gift for the Lord, to 
 
do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
7  Therefore thou and thy sons with thee shall keep your priest’s 
office for every thing of the altar, and within the veil; and ye shall 
 
serve: I have given your priest’s office unto you as a service of gift: 
   
and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death. 
8  ¶ And the Lord spake unto Aaron, Behold, I also have given thee 
the charge of mine heave offerings of all the hallowed things of the 
children of Israel; unto thee have I given them by reason of the 
 
anointing, and to thy sons, by an ordinance for ever. 
9  This shall be thine of the most holy things, reserved from the fire: 
 
every oblation of theirs, every meat offering of theirs, and every sin 
offering of theirs, and every trespass offering of theirs, which they 
shall render unto me, shall be most holy for thee and for thy sons. 
10  In the most holy place shalt thou eat it; every male shall eat it: it 
   
shall be holy unto thee. 
11  And this is thine; the heave offering of their gift, with all the wave 
 
offerings of the children of Israel: I have given them unto thee, and 
 
to thy sons and to thy daughters with thee, by a statute for ever: 
 
every one that is clean in thy house shall eat of it. 
12  All the best of the oil, and all the best of the wine, and of the wheat, 
the firstfruits of them which they shall offer unto the Lord, them 
have I given thee. 
13  And whatsoever is first ripe in the land, which they shall bring unto 
the Lord, shall be thine; every one that is clean in thine house 
 
shall eat of it. 
14  Every thing devoted in Israel shall be thine. 
15  Every thing that openeth the matrix in all flesh, which they bring 
unto the Lord, whether it be of men or beasts, shall be thine: 
 
nevertheless the firstborn of man shalt thou surely redeem, and the 
firstling of unclean beasts shalt thou redeem. 