  1843    Ezekiel 39 
there shall they bury Gog and all his multitude: and they shall call 
 
it, The valley of Hamon-gog [the multitude of Gog]. 
12  And seven months shall the house of Israel be burying of them, 
that they may cleanse the land. 
13  Yea, all the people of the land shall bury them; and it shall be to 
 
them a renown the day that I shall be glorified, saith the Lord God. 
14  And they shall sever out men of continual employment, passing 
through the land, to bury with the passengers those that remain 
upon the face of the earth, to cleanse it: after the end of seven 
 
months shall they search. 
15  And the passengers that pass through the land, when any seeth a 
man’s bone, then shall he set up a sign by it, till the buriers have 
buried it in the valley of Hamon-gog. 
16  And also the name of the city shall be Hamonah [the multitude] 
Thus shall they cleanse the land. 
17  ¶ And, thou son of man, thus saith the Lord God; Speak unto 
 
every feathered fowl, and to every beast of the field, Assemble 
yourselves, and come; gather yourselves on every side to my 
 
sacrifice that I do sacrifice for you, even a great sacrifice upon the 
mountains of Israel, that ye may eat flesh, and drink blood. 
18  Ye shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the 
princes of the earth, of rams, of lambs, and of goats, of bullocks, all 
of them fatlings of Bashan. 
19  And ye shall eat fat till ye be full, and drink blood till ye be 
drunken, of my sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you. 
20  Thus ye shall be filled at my table with horses and chariots, with 
mighty men, and with all men of war, saith the Lord God.  
21  ¶ And I will set my glory among the heathen, and all the heathen 
shall see my judgment that I have executed, and my hand that I 
have laid upon them. 
22  So the house of Israel shall know that I am the Lord their God 
from that day and forward. 
23  And the heathen shall know that the house of Israel went into 
captivity for their iniquity: because they trespassed against me, 
 