  147    Exodus 10 
8  And Moses and Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh: and he 
 
said unto them, Go, serve the Lord your God: but who are they 
 
that shall go? 
 
9  And Moses said, We will go with our young and with our old, with 
our sons and with our daughters, with our flocks and with our 
herds will we go; for we must hold a feast unto the Lord. 
 
10  And he said unto them, Let the Lord be so with you, as I will let 
you go, and your little ones: look to it; for evil is before you. 
   
11  Not so: go now ye that are men, and serve the Lord; for that ye did 
   
desire. And they were driven out from Pharaoh’s presence. 
12  ¶ And the Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the 
land of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come up upon the land 
of Egypt, and eat every herb of the land, even all that the hail hath 
left. 
13  And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and the 
Lord brought an east wind upon the land all that day, and all that 
night; and when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts. 
 
14  And the locusts went up over all the land of Egypt, and rested in all 
the coasts of Egypt: very grievous were they; before them there were 
   
no such locusts as they, neither after them shall be such. 
15  For they covered the face of the whole earth, so that the land was 
darkened; and they did eat every herb of the land, and all the fruit 
 
of the trees which the hail had left: and there remained not any 
 
green thing in the trees, or in the herbs of the field, through all the 
land of Egypt. 
16  Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste; and he said, I 
 
have sinned against the Lord your God, and against you. 
17  Now therefore forgive, I pray thee, my sin only this once, and 
entreat the Lord your God, that he may take away from me this 
death only. 
18  And he went out from Pharaoh, and entreated the Lord. 
19  And the Lord turned a mighty strong west wind, which took away 
the locusts, and cast them into the Red sea; there remained not one 
 
locust in all the coasts of Egypt. 