  109    Genesis 44 
Judah Pleads for Benjamin 
18  ¶ Then Judah came near unto him, and said, O my lord, let thy 
servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord’s ears, and let not 
thine anger burn against thy servant: for thou art even as Pharaoh. 
 
19  My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a brother? 
 
20  And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an old man, and a 
child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is dead, and he 
 
alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him. 
21  And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, that I 
may set mine eyes upon him. 
22  And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for if he 
 
should leave his father, his father would die. 
23  And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your youngest brother 
come down with you, ye shall see my face no more. 
24  And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father, 
we told him the words of my lord. 
25  And our father said, Go again, and buy us a little food. 
26  And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with 
 
us, then will we go down: for we may not see the man’s face, except 
 
our youngest brother be with us. 
27  And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife bare 
me two sons: 
 
28  and the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn in 
pieces; and I saw him not since: 
   
29  and if ye take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall 
bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave. 
30  Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad be 
not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad’s life; 
   
31  it shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not with us, that 
he will die: and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs of thy 
 
servant our father with sorrow to the grave. 
32  For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father, saying, If 
I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to my father 
for ever. 