  1824    Ezekiel 32 
5  And I will lay thy flesh upon the mountains, and fill the valleys 
with thy height. 
6  I will also water with thy blood the land wherein thou swimmest, 
even to the mountains; and the rivers shall be full of thee. 
 
7  And when I shall put thee out, I will cover the heaven, and make 
the stars thereof dark; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the 
 
moon shall not give her light.  
8  All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over thee, and set 
darkness upon thy land, saith the Lord God. 
9  ¶ I will also vex the hearts of many people, when I shall bring thy 
destruction among the nations, into the countries which thou hast 
not known. 
10  Yea, I will make many people amazed at thee, and their kings shall 
be horribly afraid for thee, when I shall brandish my sword before 
them; and they shall tremble at every moment, every man for his 
 
own life, in the day of thy fall. 
11  For thus saith the Lord God; The sword of the king of Babylon 
 
shall come upon thee. 
12  By the swords of the mighty will I cause thy multitude to fall, the 
terrible of the nations, all of them: and they shall spoil the pomp of 
 
Egypt, and all the multitude thereof shall be destroyed. 
13  I will destroy also all the beasts thereof from beside the great 
waters; neither shall the foot of man trouble them any more, nor 
 
the hoofs of beasts trouble them. 
14  Then will I make their waters deep, and cause their rivers to run 
like oil, saith the Lord God. 
15  When I shall make the land of Egypt desolate, and the country 
shall be destitute of that whereof it was full, when I shall smite all 
them that dwell therein, then shall they know that I am the Lord. 
16  This is the lamentation wherewith they shall lament her: the 
 
daughters of the nations shall lament her: they shall lament for 
 
her, even for Egypt, and for all her multitude, saith the Lord God. 
17  ¶ It came to pass also in the twelfth year, in the fifteenth day of the 
month, that the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, 