  715    2 Samuel 10 
rehob, and the Syrians of Zoba, twenty thousand footmen, and of 
king Maacah a thousand men, and of Ishtob twelve thousand men. 
7  And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the host of the 
mighty men. 
8  And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array 
at the entering in of the gate: and the Syrians of Zoba, and of 
 
Rehob, and Ishtob, and Maacah, were by themselves in the field. 
9  ¶ When Joab saw that the front of the battle was against him before 
and behind, he chose of all the choice men of Israel, and put them in 
array against the Syrians: 
 
10  and the rest of the people he delivered into the hand of Abishai his 
brother, that he might put them in array against the children of 
Ammon. 
11  And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thou shalt 
help me: but if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee, then 
 
I will come and help thee. 
12  Be of good courage, and let us play the men for our people, and for 
the cities of our God: and the Lord do that which seemeth him 
 
good. 
13  And Joab drew nigh, and the people that were with him, unto the 
battle against the Syrians: and they fled before him. 
 
14  And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled, 
then fled they also before Abishai, and entered into the city. So Joab 
returned from the children of Ammon, and came to Jerusalem. 
15  ¶ And when the Syrians saw that they were smitten before Israel, 
they gathered themselves together. 
16  And Hadarezer sent, and brought out the Syrians that were beyond 
the river [Euphrates]; and they came to Helam: and Shobach the 
   
captain of the host of Hadarezer went before them. 
17  And when it was told David, he gathered all Israel together, and 
passed over Jordan, and came to Helam. And the Syrians set 
themselves in array against David, and fought with him. 
18  And the Syrians fled before Israel; and David slew the men of seven 
 
hundred chariots of the Syrians, and forty thousand horsemen, and 
smote Shobach the captain of their host, who died there. 