  1723    Jeremiah 49 
10  But I have made Esau bare, I have uncovered his secret places, and 
he shall not be able to hide himself: his seed is spoiled, and his 
 
brethren, and his neighbors, and he is not. 
11  Leave thy fatherless children, I will preserve them alive; and let thy 
 
widows trust in me. 
12  For thus saith the Lord; Behold, they whose judgment was not to 
 
drink of the cup have assuredly drunken; and art thou he that shall 
 
altogether go unpunished? thou shalt not go unpunished, but thou 
 
shalt surely drink of it. 
13  For I have sworn by myself, saith the Lord, that Bozrah shall 
become a desolation, a reproach, a waste, and a curse; and all the 
 
cities thereof shall be perpetual wastes. 
14  ¶ I have heard a rumor from the Lord, and an ambassador is sent 
unto the heathen, saying, Gather ye together, and come against her, 
and rise up to the battle. 
15  For, lo, I will make thee small among the heathen, and despised 
among men. 
16  Thy terribleness hath deceived thee, and the pride of thine heart, O 
thou that dwellest in the clefts of the rock, that holdest the height 
of the hill: though thou shouldest make thy nest as high as the 
 
eagle, I will bring thee down from thence, saith the Lord. 
17  ¶ Also Edom shall be a desolation: every one that goeth by it shall 
 
be astonished, and shall hiss at all the plagues thereof. 
18  As in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbor 
cities thereof, saith the Lord, no man shall abide there, neither 
shall a son of man dwell in it. 
19  Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the swelling of Jordan 
against the habitation of the strong: but I will suddenly make him 
 
run away from her: and who is a chosen man, that I may appoint 
 
over her? for who is like me? and who will appoint me the time? 
     
and who is that shepherd that will stand before me? 
 
20  Therefore hear the counsel of the Lord, that he hath taken against 
Edom; and his purposes, that he hath purposed against the 
 
inhabitants of Teman: Surely the least of the flock shall draw them 
 
out; surely he shall make their habitations desolate with them. 
 