  849    2 Kings 7 
therefore come, and let us fall unto the host of the Syrians: if they 
 
save us alive, we shall live; and if they kill us, we shall but die. 
 
5  And they rose up in the twilight, to go unto the camp of the 
Syrians: and when they were come to the uttermost part of the 
 
camp of Syria, behold, there was no man there. 
6  For the Lord had made the host of the Syrians to hear a noise of 
chariots, and a noise of horses, even the noise of a great host: and 
 
they said one to another, Lo, the king of Israel hath hired against us 
the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of the Egyptians, to come 
upon us. 
7  Wherefore they arose and fled in the twilight, and left their tents, 
and their horses, and their asses, even the camp as it was, and fled 
for their life. 
8  And when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp, 
they went into one tent, and did eat and drink, and carried thence 
silver, and gold, and raiment, and went and hid it; and came again, 
 
and entered into another tent, and carried thence also, and went 
and hid it. 
9  ¶ Then they said one to another, We do not well: this day is a day of 
 
good tidings, and we hold our peace: if we tarry till the morning 
 
light, some mischief will come upon us: now therefore come, that 
 
we may go and tell the king’s household. 
10  So they came and called unto the porter of the city: and they told 
 
them, saying, We came to the camp of the Syrians, and, behold, 
there was no man there, neither voice of man, but horses tied, and 
asses tied, and the tents as they were. 
11  And he called the porters; and they told it to the king’s house 
 
within. 
12  And the king arose in the night, and said unto his servants, I will 
now show you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that 
we be hungry; therefore are they gone out of the camp to hide 
 
themselves in the field, saying, When they come out of the city, we 
shall catch them alive, and get into the city. 
13  And one of his servants answered and said, Let some take, I pray 
thee, five of the horses that remain, which are left in the city, 