  794    1 Kings 11 
12  Notwithstanding, in thy days I will not do it for David thy father’s 
sake: but I will rend it out of the hand of thy son. 
 
13  Howbeit I will not rend away all the kingdom; but will give one 
 
tribe to thy son for David my servant’s sake, and for Jerusalem’s 
sake which I have chosen. 
14  ¶ And the Lord stirred up an adversary unto Solomon, Hadad the 
Edomite: he was of the king’s seed in Edom. 
 
15  For it came to pass, when David was in Edom, and Joab the captain 
of the host was gone up to bury the slain, after he had smitten every 
male in Edom; 
 
16  (for six months did Joab remain there with all Israel, until he had 
cut off every male in Edom:) 
 
17  that Hadad fled, he and certain Edomites of his father’s servants 
with him, to go into Egypt; Hadad being yet a little child. 
 
18  And they arose out of Midian, and came to Paran: and they took 
 
men with them out of Paran, and they came to Egypt, unto 
Pharaoh king of Egypt; which gave him a house, and appointed 
 
him victuals, and gave him land. 
19  And Hadad found great favor in the sight of Pharaoh, so that he 
gave him to wife the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes 
the queen. 
20  And the sister of Tahpenes bare him Genubath his son, whom 
Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh’s house: and Genubath was in 
 
Pharaoh’s household among the sons of Pharaoh. 
21  And when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers, 
and that Joab the captain of the host was dead, Hadad said to 
Pharaoh, Let me depart, that I may go to mine own country. 
22  Then Pharaoh said unto him, But what hast thou lacked with me, 
that, behold, thou seekest to go to thine own country? And he 
 
answered, Nothing: howbeit let me go in any wise. 
 
23  ¶ And God stirred him up another adversary, Rezon the son of 
Eliadah, which fled from his lord Hadadezer king of Zobah: 
 
24  and he gathered men unto him, and became captain over a band, 
when David slew them of Zobah: and they went to Damascus, and 
 
dwelt therein, and reigned in Damascus. 