  2601    1 John 2 
12  ¶ I write unto you, little children, because your sins are forgiven 
you for his name’s sake. 
13  I write unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from 
the beginning. I write unto you, young men, because ye have 
overcome the wicked one. I write unto you, little children, because 
ye have known the Father. 
14  I have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is 
from the beginning. I have written unto you, young men, because 
ye are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have 
overcome the wicked one. 
15  ¶ Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If 
any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. 
16  For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the 
eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. 
17  And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof: but he that doeth 
 
the will of God abideth for ever. 
The Antichrist 
18  ¶ Little children, it is the last time: and as ye have heard that 
 
antichrist shall come, even now are there many antichrists; 
 
whereby we know that it is the last time. 
19  They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been 
 
of us, they would no doubt have continued with us: but they went out, 
 
that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us. 
20  But ye have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things. 
21  I have not written unto you because ye know not the truth, but 
because ye know it, and that no lie is of the truth. 
22  Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He is 
 
antichrist, that denieth the Father and the Son. 
23  Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father: [but] he 
 
that acknowledgeth the Son hath the Father also. 
24  Let that therefore abide in you, which ye have heard from the 
beginning. If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall 
remain in you, ye also shall continue in the Son, and in the Father. 