  234    Leviticus 4 
congregation, and shall pour out all the blood at the bottom of the 
altar of the burnt offering, which is at the door of the tabernacle of 
the congregation. 
19  And he shall take all his fat from him, and burn it upon the altar. 
20  And he shall do with the bullock as he did with the bullock for a sin 
offering, so shall he do with this: and the priest shall make an 
 
atonement for them, and it shall be forgiven them. 
21  And he shall carry forth the bullock without the camp, and burn 
him as he burned the first bullock: it is a sin offering for the 
 
congregation. 
22  ¶ When a ruler hath sinned, and done somewhat through ignorance 
against any of the commandments of the Lord his God concerning 
things which should not be done, and is guilty; 
 
23  or if his sin, wherein he hath sinned, come to his knowledge; he 
 
shall bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a male without blemish: 
 
24  and he shall lay his hand upon the head of the goat, and kill it in 
the place where they kill the burnt offering before the Lord: it is a 
 
sin offering. 
25  And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with his 
finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and 
shall pour out his blood at the bottom of the altar of burnt offering. 
26  And he shall burn all his fat upon the altar, as the fat of the sacrifice 
of peace offerings: and the priest shall make an atonement for him 
 
as concerning his sin, and it shall be forgiven him. 
27  ¶ And if any one of the common people sin through ignorance, 
while he doeth somewhat against any of the commandments of the 
Lord concerning things which ought not to be done, and be guilty; 
 
28  or if his sin, which he hath sinned, come to his knowledge; then he 
 
shall bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a female without 
blemish, for his sin which he hath sinned. 
29  And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and 
slay the sin offering in the place of the burnt offering. 
30  And the priest shall take of the blood thereof with his finger, and 
put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour 
out all the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar. 