  821    1 Kings 20 
6  yet I will send my servants unto thee tomorrow about this time, 
and they shall search thine house, and the houses of thy servants; 
 
and it shall be, that whatsoever is pleasant in thine eyes, they shall 
put it in their hand, and take it away. 
7  ¶ Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land, and said, 
Mark, I pray you, and see how this man seeketh mischief: for he 
 
sent unto me for my wives, and for my children, and for my silver, 
and for my gold; and I denied him not. 
 
8  And all the elders and all the people said unto him, Hearken not 
unto him, nor consent. 
9  Wherefore he said unto the messengers of Ben-hadad, Tell my lord 
the king, All that thou didst send for to thy servant at the first I will 
do: but this thing I may not do. And the messengers departed, and 
 
brought him word again. 
10  And Ben-hadad sent unto him, and said, The gods do so unto me, 
and more also, if the dust of Samaria shall suffice for handfuls for 
all the people that follow me. 
11  And the king of Israel answered and said, Tell him, Let not him that 
girdeth on his harness boast himself as he that putteth it off. 
12  And it came to pass, when Ben-hadad heard this message, as he was 
drinking, he and the kings in the pavilions, that he said unto his 
servants, Set yourselves in array. And they set themselves in array 
against the city. 
13  ¶ And, behold, there came a prophet unto Ahab king of Israel, 
saying, Thus saith the Lord, Hast thou seen all this great 
multitude? behold, I will deliver it into thine hand this day; and 
   
thou shalt know that I am the Lord. 
14  And Ahab said, By whom? And he said, Thus saith the Lord, Even 
 
by the young men of the princes of the provinces. Then he said, 
Who shall order the battle? And he answered, Thou. 
 
15  Then he numbered the young men of the princes of the provinces, 
and they were two hundred and thirty-two: and after them he 
 
numbered all the people, even all the children of Israel, being seven 
thousand. 