  1543    Isaiah 30 
3  Therefore shall the strength of Pharaoh be your shame, and the 
trust in the shadow of Egypt your confusion. 
4  For his princes were at Zoan, and his ambassadors came to Hanes. 
5  They were all ashamed of a people that could not profit them, nor 
be a help nor profit, but a shame, and also a reproach. 
6  ¶ The burden of the beasts of the south. 
¶ Into the land of trouble and anguish from whence come the young 
and old lion, the viper and fiery flying serpent, they will carry their 
riches upon the shoulders of young asses, and their treasures upon 
the bunches of camels, to a people that shall not profit them. 
7  For the Egyptians shall help in vain, and to no purpose: therefore 
 
have I cried concerning this, Their strength is to sit still. 
8  ¶ Now go, write it before them in a table, and note it in a book, that 
it may be for the time to come for ever and ever: 
 
9  that this is a rebellious people, lying children, children that will not 
hear the law of the Lord: 
 
10  which say to the seers, See not; and to the prophets, Prophesy not 
 
unto us right things, speak unto us smooth things, prophesy 
deceits: 
 
11  get you out of the way, turn aside out of the path, cause the Holy 
One of Israel to cease from before us. 
12  Wherefore thus saith the Holy One of Israel, Because ye despise 
this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and stay 
thereon: 
 
13  therefore this iniquity shall be to you as a breach ready to fall, 
swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking cometh suddenly at an 
instant. 
14  And he shall break it as the breaking of the potters’ vessel that is 
broken in pieces; he shall not spare: so that there shall not be found 
   
in the bursting of it a sherd to take fire from the hearth, or to take 
water withal out of the pit. 
15  ¶ For thus saith the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel; In returning 
 
and rest shall ye be saved; in quietness and in confidence shall be 
 
your strength: and ye would not. 
 