  585    Judges 11 
22  And they possessed all the coasts of the Amorites, from Arnon even 
unto Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto Jordan.  
23  So now the Lord God of Israel hath dispossessed the Amorites 
from before his people Israel, and shouldest thou possess it? 
 
24  Wilt not thou possess that which Chemosh thy god giveth thee to 
possess? So whomsoever the Lord our God shall drive out from 
 
before us, them will we possess. 
25  And now art thou any thing better than Balak the son of Zippor, 
king of Moab? did he ever strive against Israel, or did he ever fight 
 
against them, 
26  while Israel dwelt in Heshbon and her towns, and in Aroer and her 
towns, and in all the cities that be along by the coasts of Arnon, 
three hundred years? why therefore did ye not recover them within 
 
that time? 
 
27  Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me wrong 
to war against me: the Lord the Judge be judge this day between 
 
the children of Israel and the children of Ammon. 
28  Howbeit the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto 
the words of Jephthah which he sent him. 
29  ¶ Then the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jephthah, and he passed 
over Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpeh of Gilead, and 
from Mizpeh of Gilead he passed over unto the children of Ammon. 
30  And Jephthah vowed a vow unto the Lord, and said, If thou shalt 
without fail deliver the children of Ammon into mine hands, 
31  then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh forth of the doors of my 
house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of 
Ammon, shall surely be the Lord’s, and I will offer it up for a 
burnt offering. 
32  So Jephthah passed over unto the children of Ammon to fight 
against them; and the Lord delivered them into his hands. 
 
33  And he smote them from Aroer, even till thou come to Minnith, 
even twenty cities, and unto the plain of the vineyards, with a very 
great slaughter. Thus the children of Ammon were subdued before 
the children of Israel. 