  1625    Jeremiah 6 
17  Also I set watchmen over you, saying, Hearken to the sound of the 
trumpet. But they said, We will not hearken. 
18  Therefore hear, ye nations, and know, O congregation, what is 
among them. 
19  Hear, O earth: behold, I will bring evil upon this people, even the 
 
fruit of their thoughts, because they have not hearkened unto my 
words, nor to my law, but rejected it. 
20  To what purpose cometh there to me incense from Sheba, and the 
sweet cane from a far country? your burnt offerings are not 
 
acceptable, nor your sacrifices sweet unto me. 
21  Therefore thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will lay stumblingblocks 
before this people, and the fathers and the sons together shall fall 
upon them; the neighbor and his friend shall perish. 
 
22  ¶ Thus saith the Lord, Behold, a people cometh from the north 
country, and a great nation shall be raised from the sides of the 
earth. 
23  They shall lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel, and have no 
 
mercy; their voice roareth like the sea; and they ride upon horses, 
   
set in array as men for war against thee, O daughter of Zion. 
24  We have heard the fame thereof: our hands wax feeble: anguish 
   
hath taken hold of us, and pain, as of a woman in travail. 
25  Go not forth into the field, nor walk by the way; for the sword of 
 
the enemy and fear is on every side. 
26  O daughter of my people, gird thee with sackcloth, and wallow 
thyself in ashes: make thee mourning, as for an only son, most 
 
bitter lamentation: for the spoiler shall suddenly come upon us. 
 
27  ¶ I have set thee for a tower and a fortress among my people, that 
thou mayest know and try their way. 
28  They are all grievous revolters, walking with slanders: they are brass 
 
and iron; they are all corrupters. 
 
29  The bellows are burned, the lead is consumed of the fire; the 
 
founder melteth in vain: for the wicked are not plucked away. 
 
30  Reprobate silver shall men call them, because the Lord hath 
rejected them. 