  1008    2 Chronicles 18 
23  ¶ Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near, and smote 
Micaiah upon the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of 
the Lord from me to speak unto thee? 
 
24  And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see on that day when thou 
shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself. 
25  Then the king of Israel said, Take ye Micaiah, and carry him back to 
Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king’s son; 
 
26  and say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed 
him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I 
return in peace. 
27  And Micaiah said, If thou certainly return in peace, then hath not 
the Lord spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, all ye people. 
28  ¶ So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up 
to Ramoth-gilead. 
29  And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself, 
and will go to the battle; but put thou on thy robes. So the king of 
 
Israel disguised himself; and they went to the battle. 
 
30  Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of the chariots 
that were with him, saying, Fight ye not with small or great, save 
only with the king of Israel. 
31  And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw 
Jehoshaphat, that they said, It is the king of Israel. Therefore they 
compassed about him to fight: but Jehoshaphat cried out, and the 
 
Lord helped him; and God moved them to depart from him. 
 
32  For it came to pass, that, when the captains of the chariots 
perceived that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back again 
from pursuing him. 
33  And a certain man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king of 
Israel between the joints of the harness: therefore he said to his 
 
chariot man, Turn thine hand, that thou mayest carry me out of 
the host; for I am wounded. 
 
34  And the battle increased that day: howbeit the king of Israel stayed 
 
himself up in his chariot against the Syrians until the even: and 
 
about the time of the sun going down he died. 