  626    1 Samuel 3 
2  ¶ And it came to pass at that time, when Eli was laid down in his 
place, and his eyes began to wax dim, that he could not see; 
 
3  and ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of the Lord, 
where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep; 
 
4  that the Lord called Samuel: and he answered, Here am I. 
 
5  And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And 
 
he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down. 
 
6  And the Lord called yet again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and 
went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And he 
 
answered, I called not, my son; lie down again. 
 
7  Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, neither was the word of 
the Lord yet revealed unto him. 
8  And the Lord called Samuel again the third time. And he arose 
and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And Eli 
 
perceived that the Lord had called the child. 
9  Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he 
 
call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. 
 
So Samuel went and lay down in his place. 
10  ¶ And the Lord came, and stood, and called as at other times, 
Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak; for thy servant 
 
heareth. 
11  And the Lord said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at 
which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle. 
12  In that day I will perform against Eli all things which I have spoken 
concerning his house: when I begin, I will also make an end. 
 
13  For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the 
iniquity which he knoweth; because his sons made themselves vile, 
 
and he restrained them not. 
14  And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity 
of Eli’s house shall not be purged with sacrifice nor offering for 
ever. 
15  ¶ And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the 
house of the Lord. And Samuel feared to show Eli the vision. 
16  Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he 
answered, Here am I. 