  1795    Ezekiel 20 
28  For when I had brought them into the land, for the which I lifted up 
mine hand to give it to them, then they saw every high hill, and all 
the thick trees, and they offered there their sacrifices, and there 
they presented the provocation of their offering: there also they 
 
made their sweet savor, and poured out there their drink offerings. 
29  Then I said unto them, What is the high place whereunto ye go? 
 
And the name thereof is called Bamah unto this day. 
30  Wherefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord God; 
 
Are ye polluted after the manner of your fathers? and commit ye 
 
whoredom after their abominations? 
 
31  For when ye offer your gifts, when ye make your sons to pass 
through the fire, ye pollute yourselves with all your idols, even 
unto this day: and shall I be inquired of by you, O house of Israel? 
   
As I live, saith the Lord God, I will not be inquired of by you. 
32  ¶ And that which cometh into your mind shall not be at all, that ye 
say, We will be as the heathen, as the families of the countries, to 
serve wood and stone. 
33  ¶ As I live, saith the Lord God, surely with a mighty hand, and 
with a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out, will I rule over 
you: 
 
34  and I will bring you out from the people, and will gather you out of 
the countries wherein ye are scattered, with a mighty hand, and 
with a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out. 
35  And I will bring you into the wilderness of the people, and there 
will I plead with you face to face. 
36  Like as I pleaded with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of 
Egypt, so will I plead with you, saith the Lord God. 
37  And I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you into 
the bond of the covenant: 
 
38  and I will purge out from among you the rebels, and them that 
transgress against me: I will bring them forth out of the country 
 
where they sojourn, and they shall not enter into the land of Israel: 
 
and ye shall know that I am the Lord. 
39  ¶ As for you, O house of Israel, thus saith the Lord God; Go ye, 
 
serve ye every one his idols, and hereafter also, if ye will not 