  1669    Jeremiah 26 
10  ¶ When the princes of Judah heard these things, then they came up 
from the king’s house unto the house of the Lord, and sat down in 
the entry of the new gate of the Lord’s house. 
11  Then spake the priests and the prophets unto the princes and to all 
the people, saying, This man is worthy to die; for he hath 
 
prophesied against this city, as ye have heard with your ears. 
12  ¶ Then spake Jeremiah unto all the princes and to all the people, 
saying, The Lord sent me to prophesy against this house and 
against this city all the words that ye have heard. 
13  Therefore now amend your ways and your doings, and obey the 
voice of the Lord your God; and the Lord will repent him of the 
 
evil that he hath pronounced against you. 
14  As for me, behold, I am in your hand: do with me as seemeth good 
 
and meet unto you. 
15  But know ye for certain, that if ye put me to death, ye shall surely 
bring innocent blood upon yourselves, and upon this city, and upon 
the inhabitants thereof: for of a truth the Lord hath sent me unto 
 
you to speak all these words in your ears. 
16  ¶ Then said the princes and all the people unto the priests and to 
the prophets; This man is not worthy to die: for he hath spoken to 
   
us in the name of the Lord our God. 
17  Then rose up certain of the elders of the land, and spake to all the 
assembly of the people, saying, 
18  Micah the Morasthite prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of 
Judah, and spake to all the people of Judah, saying, Thus saith the 
Lord of hosts; Zion shall be plowed like a field, and Jerusalem shall 
 
become heaps, and the mountain of the house as the high places of 
a forest.  
19  Did Hezekiah king of Judah and all Judah put him at all to death? 
 
did he not fear the Lord, and besought the Lord, and the Lord 
repented him of the evil which he had pronounced against them? 
 
Thus might we procure great evil against our souls. 
20  ¶ And there was also a man that prophesied in the name of the 
Lord, Urijah the son of Shemaiah of Kirjath-jearim, who 