  1661    Jeremiah 23 
8  but, The Lord liveth, which brought up and which led the seed of 
the house of Israel out of the north country, and from all countries 
whither I had driven them; and they shall dwell in their own land. 
 
Denunciation of the Lying Prophets 
9  ¶ Mine heart within me is broken because of the prophets; all my 
 
bones shake: I am like a drunken man, and like a man whom wine 
 
hath overcome, because of the Lord, and because of the words of 
his holiness. 
10  For the land is full of adulterers; for because of swearing the land 
 
mourneth; the pleasant places of the wilderness are dried up, and 
 
their course is evil, and their force is not right. 
11  For both prophet and priest are profane; yea, in my house have I 
 
found their wickedness, saith the Lord. 
12  Wherefore their way shall be unto them as slippery ways in the 
darkness: they shall be driven on, and fall therein: for I will bring 
   
evil upon them, even the year of their visitation, saith the Lord. 
13  And I have seen folly in the prophets of Samaria; they prophesied 
 
in Baal, and caused my people Israel to err. 
14  I have seen also in the prophets of Jerusalem a horrible thing: they 
 
commit adultery, and walk in lies: they strengthen also the hands 
 
of evildoers, that none doth return from his wickedness: they are 
 
all of them unto me as Sodom, and the inhabitants thereof as 
Gomorrah. 
15  Therefore thus saith the Lord of hosts concerning the prophets; 
 
Behold, I will feed them with wormwood, and make them drink 
the water of gall: for from the prophets of Jerusalem is profaneness 
 
gone forth into all the land. 
16  ¶ Thus saith the Lord of hosts, Hearken not unto the words of the 
prophets that prophesy unto you; they make you vain: they speak a 
   
vision of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of the Lord. 
17  They say still unto them that despise me, The Lord hath said, Ye 
shall have peace; and they say unto every one that walketh after the 
 
imagination of his own heart, No evil shall come upon you. 