  36    Genesis 17 
11  And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin; and it shall be a 
 
token of the covenant betwixt me and you. 
12  And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you, every 
man child in your generations, he that is born in the house, or 
bought with money of any stranger, which is not of thy seed. 
13  He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy money, 
must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in your flesh 
 
for an everlasting covenant. 
14  And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his foreskin is not 
circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hath 
 
broken my covenant. 
15  ¶ And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not 
call her name Sarai, but Sarah [princess] shall her name be. 
16  And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her: yea, I will bless 
 
her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of people shall be of 
 
her. 
17  Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his 
heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is a hundred years old? 
 
and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear? 
 
18  And Abraham said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before 
thee! 
 
19  And God said, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou 
 
shalt call his name Isaac: and I will establish my covenant with him 
 
for an everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him. 
20  And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: Behold, I have blessed him, 
 
and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly; 
 
twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation. 
21  But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall bear 
unto thee at this set time in the next year. 
22  ¶ And he left off talking with him, and God went up from 
Abraham. 
23  And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his 
house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among 
the men of Abraham’s house; and circumcised the flesh of their 
 
foreskin in the selfsame day, as God had said unto him. 