  1800    Ezekiel 22 
2  Now, thou son of man, wilt thou judge, wilt thou judge the bloody 
city? yea, thou shalt show her all her abominations. 
 
3  Then say thou, Thus saith the Lord God; The city sheddeth blood 
 
in the midst of it, that her time may come, and maketh idols 
against herself to defile herself. 
4  Thou art become guilty in thy blood that thou hast shed; and hast 
 
defiled thyself in thine idols which thou hast made; and thou hast 
 
caused thy days to draw near, and art come even unto thy years: 
 
therefore have I made thee a reproach unto the heathen, and a 
mocking to all countries. 
5  Those that be near, and those that be far from thee, shall mock thee, 
which art infamous and much vexed. 
6  ¶ Behold, the princes of Israel, every one were in thee to their 
power to shed blood. 
7  In thee have they set light by father and mother: in the midst of 
 
thee have they dealt by oppression with the stranger: in thee have 
 
they vexed the fatherless and the widow.  
8  Thou hast despised mine holy things, and hast profaned my 
sabbaths.  
9  In thee are men that carry tales to shed blood: and in thee they eat 
 
upon the mountains: in the midst of thee they commit lewdness. 
 
10  In thee have they discovered their fathers’ nakedness: in thee have 
 
they humbled her that was set apart for pollution. 
11  And one hath committed abomination with his neighbor’s wife; 
 
and another hath lewdly defiled his daughter-in-law; and another 
 
in thee hath humbled his sister, his father’s daughter.  
12  In thee have they taken gifts to shed blood; thou hast taken usury 
 
and increase, and thou hast greedily gained of thy neighbors by 
extortion, and hast forgotten me, saith the Lord God. 
13  ¶ Behold, therefore I have smitten mine hand at thy dishonest gain 
which thou hast made, and at thy blood which hath been in the 
midst of thee. 
14  Can thine heart endure, or can thine hands be strong, in the days 
that I shall deal with thee? I the Lord have spoken it, and will do 
 
it. 