  1695    Jeremiah 36 
scribe, in the higher court, at the entry of the new gate of the 
Lord’s house, in the ears of all the people. 
11  ¶ When Michaiah the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, had 
heard out of the book all the words of the Lord, 
12  then he went down into the king’s house, into the scribe’s 
chamber: and, lo, all the princes sat there, even Elishama the scribe, 
 
and Delaiah the son of Shemaiah, and Elnathan the son of Achbor, 
and Gemariah the son of Shaphan, and Zedekiah the son of 
Hananiah, and all the princes. 
13  Then Michaiah declared unto them all the words that he had heard, 
when Baruch read the book in the ears of the people. 
14  Therefore all the princes sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, the son 
of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, unto Baruch, saying, Take in thine 
hand the roll wherein thou hast read in the ears of the people, and 
come. So Baruch the son of Neriah took the roll in his hand, and 
came unto them. 
15  And they said unto him, Sit down now, and read it in our ears. So 
Baruch read it in their ears. 
16  Now it came to pass, when they had heard all the words, they were 
afraid both one and other, and said unto Baruch, We will surely tell 
the king of all these words. 
17  And they asked Baruch, saying, Tell us now, how didst thou write 
all these words at his mouth? 
 
18  Then Baruch answered them, He pronounced all these words unto 
me with his mouth, and I wrote them with ink in the book. 
19  Then said the princes unto Baruch, Go, hide thee, thou and 
Jeremiah; and let no man know where ye be. 
 
20  ¶ And they went in to the king into the court, but they laid up the 
roll in the chamber of Elishama the scribe, and told all the words in 
the ears of the king. 
21  So the king sent Jehudi to fetch the roll; and he took it out of 
 
Elishama the scribe’s chamber. And Jehudi read it in the ears of the 
king, and in the ears of all the princes which stood beside the king. 
22  Now the king sat in the winter house in the ninth month: and there 
 
was a fire on the hearth burning before him. 