  2644    Revelation 18 
10  standing afar off for the fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas, that 
great city Babylon, that mighty city! for in one hour is thy 
 
judgment come.  
11  ¶ And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her; 
 
for no man buyeth their merchandise any more: 
 
12  the merchandise of gold, and silver, and precious stones, and of 
pearls, and fine linen, and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all 
thyine wood, and all manner vessels of ivory, and all manner 
vessels of most precious wood, and of brass, and iron, and marble, 
13  and cinnamon, and odors, and ointments, and frankincense, and 
wine, and oil, and fine flour, and wheat, and beasts, and sheep, and 
horses, and chariots, and slaves, and souls of men. 
14  And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from thee, and 
all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from thee, 
and thou shalt find them no more at all. 
15  The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her, shall 
stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing, 
16  and saying, Alas, alas, that great city, that was clothed in fine linen, 
and purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold, and precious stones, 
and pearls! 
 
17  For in one hour so great riches is come to nought. And every 
shipmaster, and all the company in ships, and sailors, and as many 
as trade by sea, stood afar off, 
18  and cried when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What 
city is like unto this great city! 
 
19  And they cast dust on their heads, and cried, weeping and wailing, 
saying, Alas, alas, that great city, wherein were made rich all that 
had ships in the sea by reason of her costliness! for in one hour is 
 
she made desolate.  
20  Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets; 
 
for God hath avenged you on her. 
21  ¶ And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone, and 
cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city 
Babylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all.  