  681    1 Samuel 25 
God; and the souls of thine enemies, them shall he sling out, as out 
 
of the middle of a sling. 
30  And it shall come to pass, when the Lord shall have done to my 
lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, 
and shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel; 
 
31  that this shall be no grief unto thee, nor offense of heart unto my 
lord, either that thou hast shed blood causeless, or that my lord 
hath avenged himself: but when the Lord shall have dealt well 
 
with my lord, then remember thine handmaid. 
32  ¶ And David said to Abigail, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, 
which sent thee this day to meet me: 
 
33  and blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou, which hast kept me 
this day from coming to shed blood, and from avenging myself with 
mine own hand. 
34  For in very deed, as the Lord God of Israel liveth, which hath kept 
me back from hurting thee, except thou hadst hasted and come to 
meet me, surely there had not been left unto Nabal by the morning 
light any that pisseth against the wall. 
35  So David received of her hand that which she had brought him, and 
said unto her, Go up in peace to thine house; see, I have hearkened 
 
to thy voice, and have accepted thy person. 
36  ¶ And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his 
 
house, like the feast of a king; and Nabal’s heart was merry within 
 
him, for he was very drunken: wherefore she told him nothing, less 
 
or more, until the morning light. 
37  But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of 
Nabal, and his wife had told him these things, that his heart died 
within him, and he became as a stone. 
38  And it came to pass about ten days after, that the Lord smote 
Nabal, that he died. 
39  ¶ And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be 
the Lord, that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the 
hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil: for the Lord 
 
hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And 
David sent and communed with Abigail, to take her to him to wife. 