  874    2 Kings 16 
5  ¶ Then Rezin king of Syria, and Pekah son of Remaliah king of 
Israel, came up to Jerusalem to war: and they besieged Ahaz, but 
 
could not overcome him.  
6  At that time Rezin king of Syria recovered Elath to Syria, and drave 
the Jews from Elath: and the Syrians came to Elath, and dwelt there 
 
unto this day. 
7  So Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, saying, I 
am thy servant and thy son: come up, and save me out of the hand 
 
of the king of Syria, and out of the hand of the king of Israel, which 
rise up against me. 
8  And Ahaz took the silver and gold that was found in the house of 
the Lord, and in the treasures of the king’s house, and sent it for a 
present to the king of Assyria. 
9  And the king of Assyria hearkened unto him: for the king of 
 
Assyria went up against Damascus, and took it, and carried the 
people of it captive to Kir, and slew Rezin. 
10  ¶ And king Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Tiglath-pileser king of 
Assyria, and saw an altar that was at Damascus: and king Ahaz sent 
 
to Urijah the priest the fashion of the altar, and the pattern of it, 
according to all the workmanship thereof. 
11  And Urijah the priest built an altar according to all that king Ahaz 
had sent from Damascus: so Urijah the priest made it against king 
 
Ahaz came from Damascus. 
12  And when the king was come from Damascus, the king saw the 
altar: and the king approached to the altar, and offered thereon. 
 
13  And he burnt his burnt offering and his meat offering, and poured 
his drink offering, and sprinkled the blood of his peace offerings, 
upon the altar. 
14  And he brought also the brazen altar, which was before the Lord, 
from the forefront of the house, from between the altar and the 
house of the Lord, and put it on the north side of the altar. 
15  And king Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, Upon the 
great altar burn the morning burnt offering, and the evening meat 
offering, and the king’s burnt sacrifice, and his meat offering, with 
the burnt offering of all the people of the land, and their meat 