  765    1 Kings 2 
the kingdom also; for he is mine elder brother; even for him, and 
   
for Abiathar the priest, and for Joab the son of Zeruiah. 
23  Then king Solomon sware by the Lord, saying, God do so to me, 
and more also, if Adonijah have not spoken this word against his 
own life. 
24  Now therefore, as the Lord liveth, which hath established me, and 
set me on the throne of David my father, and who hath made me a 
house, as he promised, Adonijah shall be put to death this day. 
25  And king Solomon sent by the hand of Benaiah the son of 
Jehoiada; and he fell upon him that he died. 
 
26  ¶ And unto Abiathar the priest said the king, Get thee to Anathoth, 
unto thine own fields; for thou art worthy of death: but I will not 
   
at this time put thee to death, because thou barest the ark of the 
Lord God before David my father, and because thou hast been 
afflicted in all wherein my father was afflicted.  
27  So Solomon thrust out Abiathar from being priest unto the Lord; 
 
that he might fulfil the word of the Lord, which he spake 
concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh.  
28  ¶ Then tidings came to Joab: for Joab had turned after Adonijah, 
 
though he turned not after Absalom. And Joab fled unto the 
tabernacle of the Lord, and caught hold on the horns of the altar. 
29  And it was told king Solomon that Joab was fled unto the 
tabernacle of the Lord; and, behold, he is by the altar. Then 
 
Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, Go, fall upon 
him. 
30  And Benaiah came to the tabernacle of the Lord, and said unto 
him, Thus saith the king, Come forth. And he said, Nay; but I will 
 
die here. And Benaiah brought the king word again, saying, Thus 
said Joab, and thus he answered me. 
31  And the king said unto him, Do as he hath said, and fall upon him, 
and bury him; that thou mayest take away the innocent blood, 
 
which Joab shed, from me, and from the house of my father. 
32  And the Lord shall return his blood upon his own head, who fell 
upon two men more righteous and better than he, and slew them 
with the sword, my father David not knowing thereof, to wit, Abner 