  660    1 Samuel 17 
36  Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear: and this 
 
uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath 
defied the armies of the living God. 
37  David said moreover, The Lord that delivered me out of the paw 
of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of 
the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and the 
Lord be with thee. 
38  And Saul armed David with his armor, and he put a helmet of brass 
upon his head; also he armed him with a coat of mail. 
 
39  And David girded his sword upon his armor, and he assayed to go; 
 
for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go 
with these; for I have not proved them. And David put them off 
 
him. 
40  And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones 
out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd’s bag which he had, 
even in a scrip; and his sling was in his hand: and he drew near to 
   
the Philistine. 
41  ¶ And the Philistine came on and drew near unto David; and the 
 
man that bare the shield went before him. 
42  And when the Philistine looked about, and saw David, he 
disdained him: for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and of a fair 
 
countenance. 
43  And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to 
me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. 
 
44  And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy 
flesh unto the fowls of the air, and to the beasts of the field. 
45  Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword, 
and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to thee in the name 
 
of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou 
hast defied. 
46  This day will the Lord deliver thee into mine hand; and I will 
 
smite thee, and take thine head from thee; and I will give the 
 
carcasses of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the 
air, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know 
 
that there is a God in Israel. 