  506    Joshua 6 
17  And the city shall be accursed, even it, and all that are therein, to the 
Lord: only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all that are with 
 
her in the house, because she hid the messengers that we sent. 
18  And ye, in any wise keep yourselves from the accursed thing, lest ye 
make yourselves accursed, when ye take of the accursed thing, and 
make the camp of Israel a curse, and trouble it. 
19  But all the silver, and gold, and vessels of brass and iron, are 
consecrated unto the Lord: they shall come into the treasury of 
 
the Lord. 
20  So the people shouted when the priests blew with the trumpets: and 
 
it came to pass, when the people heard the sound of the trumpet, 
and the people shouted with a great shout, that the wall fell down 
flat, so that the people went up into the city, every man straight 
before him, and they took the city. 
21  And they utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man and 
woman, young and old, and ox, and sheep, and ass, with the edge of 
the sword. 
22  ¶ But Joshua had said unto the two men that had spied out the 
country, Go into the harlot’s house, and bring out thence the 
woman, and all that she hath, as ye sware unto her. 
23  And the young men that were spies went in, and brought out 
Rahab, and her father, and her mother, and her brethren, and all 
that she had; and they brought out all her kindred, and left them 
 
without the camp of Israel. 
24  And they burnt the city with fire, and all that was therein: only the 
 
silver, and the gold, and the vessels of brass and of iron, they put 
into the treasury of the house of the Lord. 
25  And Joshua saved Rahab the harlot alive, and her father’s 
household, and all that she had; and she dwelleth in Israel even 
 
unto this day; because she hid the messengers, which Joshua sent to 
 
spy out Jericho.  
26  ¶ And Joshua adjured them at that time, saying, Cursed be the man 
before the Lord, that riseth up and buildeth this city Jericho: he 
 
shall lay the foundation thereof in his firstborn, and in his 
youngest son shall he set up the gates of it.  