  1907    Hosea 2 
10  And now will I discover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and 
none shall deliver her out of mine hand. 
11  I will also cause all her mirth to cease, her feast days, her new 
moons, and her sabbaths, and all her solemn feasts. 
12  And I will destroy her vines and her fig trees, whereof she hath 
said, These are my rewards that my lovers have given me: and I will 
 
make them a forest, and the beasts of the field shall eat them. 
13  And I will visit upon her the days of Baalim, wherein she burned 
incense to them, and she decked herself with her earrings and her 
jewels, and she went after her lovers, and forgat me, saith the 
Lord. 
14  ¶ Therefore, behold, I will allure her, and bring her into the 
wilderness, and speak comfortably unto her. 
15  And I will give her her vineyards from thence, and the valley of 
Achor for a door of hope: and she shall sing there, as in the days of 
 
her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of 
Egypt. 
16  And it shall be at that day, saith the Lord, that thou shalt call me 
Ishi [my husband]; and shalt call me no more Baali [my lord]. 
 
17  For I will take away the names of Baalim out of her mouth, and 
they shall no more be remembered by their name. 
18  And in that day will I make a covenant for them with the beasts of 
the field, and with the fowls of heaven, and with the creeping 
things of the ground: and I will break the bow and the sword and 
 
the battle out of the earth, and will make them to lie down safely. 
19  And I will betroth thee unto me for ever; yea, I will betroth thee 
 
unto me in righteousness, and in judgment, and in loving-
kindness, and in mercies. 
20  I will even betroth thee unto me in faithfulness: and thou shalt 
 
know the Lord. 
21  ¶ And it shall come to pass in that day, I will hear, saith the Lord, I 
will hear the heavens, and they shall hear the earth; 
 
22  and the earth shall hear the corn, and the wine, and the oil; and 
 
they shall hear Jezreel. 