  192    Exodus 28 
32  And there shall be a hole in the top of it, in the midst thereof: it 
 
shall have a binding of woven work round about the hole of it, as it 
were the hole of an habergeon, that it be not rent. 
33  And beneath upon the hem of it thou shalt make pomegranates of 
blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, round about the hem thereof; 
 
and bells of gold between them round about: 
 
34  a golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, 
upon the hem of the robe round about. 
35  And it shall be upon Aaron to minister: and his sound shall be 
 
heard when he goeth in unto the holy place before the Lord, and 
when he cometh out, that he die not. 
36  ¶ And thou shalt make a plate of pure gold, and grave upon it, like 
the engravings of a signet, Holiness to the Lord. 
37  And thou shalt put it on a blue lace, that it may be upon the mitre; 
 
upon the forefront of the mitre it shall be. 
38  And it shall be upon Aaron’s forehead, that Aaron may bear the 
iniquity of the holy things, which the children of Israel shall 
hallow in all their holy gifts; and it shall be always upon his 
 
forehead, that they may be accepted before the Lord. 
39  ¶ And thou shalt embroider the coat of fine linen, and thou shalt 
make the mitre of fine linen, and thou shalt make the girdle of 
needlework. 
40  ¶ And for Aaron’s sons thou shalt make coats, and thou shalt make 
for them girdles, and bonnets shalt thou make for them, for glory 
and for beauty. 
41  And thou shalt put them upon Aaron thy brother, and his sons 
with him; and shalt anoint them, and consecrate them, and 
 
sanctify them, that they may minister unto me in the priest’s office. 
42  And thou shalt make them linen breeches to cover their nakedness; 
 
from the loins even unto the thighs they shall reach: 
 
43  and they shall be upon Aaron, and upon his sons, when they come 
in unto the tabernacle of the congregation, or when they come near 
unto the altar to minister in the holy place; that they bear not 
 
iniquity, and die: it shall be a statute for ever unto him and his seed 
 
after him. 