  575    Judges 8 
14  and caught a young man of the men of Succoth, and inquired of 
him: and he described unto him the princes of Succoth, and the 
 
elders thereof, even threescore and seventeen men. 
15  And he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold Zebah and 
Zalmunna, with whom ye did upbraid me, saying, Are the hands of 
Zebah and Zalmunna now in thine hand, that we should give bread 
unto thy men that are weary? 
 
16  And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness, and 
briers, and with them he taught the men of Succoth. 
17  And he beat down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the 
city. 
18  ¶ Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna, What manner of men 
were they whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, 
 
so were they; each one resembled the children of a king. 
 
19  And he said, They were my brethren, even the sons of my mother: as 
 
the Lord liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not slay you. 
20  And he said unto Jether his firstborn, Up, and slay them. But the 
youth drew not his sword: for he feared, because he was yet a youth. 
 
21  Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Rise thou, and fall upon us: for as 
 
the man is, so is his strength. And Gideon arose, and slew Zebah and 
Zalmunna, and took away the ornaments that were on their camels’ 
necks. 
22  ¶ Then the men of Israel said unto Gideon, Rule thou over us, both 
thou, and thy son, and thy son’s son also: for thou hast delivered us 
 
from the hand of Midian. 
23  And Gideon said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall 
my son rule over you: the Lord shall rule over you. 
 
24  And Gideon said unto them, I would desire a request of you, that ye 
would give me every man the earrings of his prey. (For they had 
golden earrings, because they were Ishmaelites.) 
25  And they answered, We will willingly give them. And they spread a 
garment, and did cast therein every man the earrings of his prey. 
26  And the weight of the golden earrings that he requested was a 
thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold; besides ornaments, 
 