  1614    Jeremiah 2 
16  Also the children of Noph and Tahapanes have broken the crown of 
thy head. 
17  Hast thou not procured this unto thyself, in that thou hast forsaken 
the Lord thy God, when he led thee by the way? 
 
18  And now what hast thou to do in the way of Egypt, to drink the 
waters of Sihor? or what hast thou to do in the way of Assyria, to 
 
drink the waters of the river? 
 
19  Thine own wickedness shall correct thee, and thy backslidings shall 
reprove thee: know therefore and see that it is an evil thing and 
 
bitter, that thou hast forsaken the Lord thy God, and that my fear 
is not in thee, saith the Lord God of hosts. 
20  ¶ For of old time I have broken thy yoke, and burst thy bands; and 
 
thou saidst, I will not transgress; when upon every high hill and 
 
under every green tree thou wanderest, playing the harlot. 
21  Yet I had planted thee a noble vine, wholly a right seed: how then 
 
art thou turned into the degenerate plant of a strange vine unto 
me? 
 
22  For though thou wash thee with nitre, and take thee much soap, yet 
thine iniquity is marked before me, saith the Lord God. 
23  How canst thou say, I am not polluted, I have not gone after 
Baalim? See thy way in the valley, know what thou hast done: thou 
   
art a swift dromedary traversing her ways; 
 
24  a wild ass used to the wilderness, that snuffeth up the wind at her 
pleasure; in her occasion who can turn her away? all they that seek 
   
her will not weary themselves; in her month they shall find her. 
 
25  Withhold thy foot from being unshod, and thy throat from thirst: 
 
but thou saidst, There is no hope: no; for I have loved strangers, 
   
and after them will I go. 
26  ¶ As the thief is ashamed when he is found, so is the house of Israel 
ashamed; they, their kings, their princes, and their priests, and 
 
their prophets, 
27  saying to a stock, Thou art my father; and to a stone, Thou hast 
 
brought me forth: for they have turned their back unto me, and not 
 
their face: but in the time of their trouble they will say, Arise, and 
 
save us. 