  1892    Daniel 8 
3  Then I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and, behold, there stood before 
the river a ram which had two horns: and the two horns were high; 
   
but one was higher than the other, and the higher came up last. 
4  I saw the ram pushing westward, and northward, and southward; 
 
so that no beasts might stand before him, neither was there any that 
could deliver out of his hand; but he did according to his will, and 
 
became great. 
5  ¶ And as I was considering, behold, a he goat came from the west 
on the face of the whole earth, and touched not the ground: and 
 
the goat had a notable horn between his eyes. 
6  And he came to the ram that had two horns, which I had seen 
standing before the river, and ran unto him in the fury of his 
power. 
7  And I saw him come close unto the ram, and he was moved with 
choler against him, and smote the ram, and brake his two horns: 
 
and there was no power in the ram to stand before him, but he cast 
him down to the ground, and stamped upon him: and there was 
 
none that could deliver the ram out of his hand. 
8  Therefore the he goat waxed very great: and when he was strong, 
 
the great horn was broken; and for it came up four notable ones 
 
toward the four winds of heaven. 
9  ¶ And out of one of them came forth a little horn, which waxed 
exceeding great, toward the south, and toward the east, and toward 
the pleasant land. 
10  And it waxed great, even to the host of heaven; and it cast down 
 
some of the host and of the stars to the ground, and stamped upon 
them. 
11  Yea, he magnified himself even to the prince of the host, and by him 
the daily sacrifice was taken away, and the place of his sanctuary was 
cast down. 
12  And a host was given him against the daily sacrifice by reason of 
transgression, and it cast down the truth to the ground; and it 
 
practised, and prospered. 
13  Then I heard one saint speaking, and another saint said unto that 
certain saint which spake, How long shall be the vision concerning 