  1862    Ezekiel 46 
8  And when the prince shall enter, he shall go in by the way of the 
porch of that gate, and he shall go forth by the way thereof. 
9  ¶ But when the people of the land shall come before the Lord in 
the solemn feasts, he that entereth in by the way of the north gate 
to worship shall go out by the way of the south gate; and he that 
 
entereth by the way of the south gate shall go forth by the way of 
the north gate: he shall not return by the way of the gate whereby 
 
he came in, but shall go forth over against it. 
10  And the prince in the midst of them, when they go in, shall go in; 
 
and when they go forth, shall go forth. 
11  ¶ And in the feasts and in the solemnities the meat offering shall be 
an ephah to a bullock, and an ephah to a ram, and to the lambs as 
he is able to give, and a hin of oil to an ephah. 
12  Now when the prince shall prepare a voluntary burnt offering or 
peace offerings voluntarily unto the Lord, one shall then open him 
the gate that looketh toward the east, and he shall prepare his burnt 
offering and his peace offerings, as he did on the sabbath day: then 
 
he shall go forth; and after his going forth one shall shut the gate. 
 
13  ¶ Thou shalt daily prepare a burnt offering unto the Lord of a lamb 
of the first year without blemish: thou shalt prepare it every 
 
morning. 
14  And thou shalt prepare a meat offering for it every morning, the 
sixth part of an ephah, and the third part of a hin of oil, to temper 
with the fine flour; a meat offering continually by a perpetual 
 
ordinance unto the Lord. 
15  Thus shall they prepare the lamb, and the meat offering, and the 
oil, every morning for a continual burnt offering. 
16  ¶ Thus saith the Lord God; If the prince give a gift unto any of his 
 
sons, the inheritance thereof shall be his sons’; it shall be their 
 
possession by inheritance. 
17  But if he give a gift of his inheritance to one of his servants, then it 
shall be his to the year of liberty; after, it shall return to the prince: 
   
but his inheritance shall be his sons’ for them. 
18  Moreover the prince shall not take of the people’s inheritance by 
oppression, to thrust them out of their possession; but he shall give 
 