  1080    Nehemiah 2 
7  Moreover I said unto the king, If it please the king, let letters be 
given me to the governors beyond the river, that they may convey 
me over till I come into Judah; 
 
8  and a letter unto Asaph the keeper of the king’s forest, that he may 
give me timber to make beams for the gates of the palace which 
appertained to the house, and for the wall of the city, and for the 
house that I shall enter into. And the king granted me, according to 
the good hand of my God upon me. 
9  ¶ Then I came to the governors beyond the river, and gave them 
the king’s letters. Now the king had sent captains of the army and 
horsemen with me. 
10  When Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, the 
Ammonite, heard of it, it grieved them exceedingly that there was 
come a man to seek the welfare of the children of Israel. 
Nehemiah Encourages the People to Rebuild the Walls 
11  ¶ So I came to Jerusalem, and was there three days. 
12  And I arose in the night, I and some few men with me; neither told 
 
I any man what my God had put in my heart to do at Jerusalem: 
 
neither was there any beast with me, save the beast that I rode upon. 
13  And I went out by night by the gate of the valley, even before the 
dragon well, and to the dung port, and viewed the walls of 
Jerusalem, which were broken down, and the gates thereof were 
consumed with fire. 
14  Then I went on to the gate of the fountain, and to the king’s pool: 
 
but there was no place for the beast that was under me to pass. 
15  Then went I up in the night by the brook, and viewed the wall, and 
turned back, and entered by the gate of the valley, and so returned. 
16  And the rulers knew not whither I went, or what I did; neither had 
 
I as yet told it to the Jews, nor to the priests, nor to the nobles, nor 
to the rulers, nor to the rest that did the work. 
17  ¶ Then said I unto them, Ye see the distress that we are in, how 
Jerusalem lieth waste, and the gates thereof are burned with fire: 
 