  194    Exodus 29 
13  And thou shalt take all the fat that covereth the inwards, and the 
caul that is above the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is 
upon them, and burn them upon the altar. 
14  But the flesh of the bullock, and his skin, and his dung, shalt thou 
burn with fire without the camp: it is a sin offering. 
 
15  ¶ Thou shalt also take one ram; and Aaron and his sons shall put 
 
their hands upon the head of the ram. 
16  And thou shalt slay the ram, and thou shalt take his blood, and 
sprinkle it round about upon the altar. 
17  And thou shalt cut the ram in pieces, and wash the inwards of him, 
and his legs, and put them unto his pieces, and unto his head. 
18  And thou shalt burn the whole ram upon the altar: it is a burnt 
 
offering unto the Lord: it is a sweet savor, an offering made by fire 
 
unto the Lord. 
19  ¶ And thou shalt take the other ram; and Aaron and his sons shall 
 
put their hands upon the head of the ram. 
20  Then shalt thou kill the ram, and take of his blood, and put it upon 
the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and upon the tip of the right ear of 
his sons, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the 
great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood upon the altar 
round about. 
21  And thou shalt take of the blood that is upon the altar, and of the 
anointing oil, and sprinkle it upon Aaron, and upon his garments, 
and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with him: 
 
and he shall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, and his 
sons’ garments with him. 
22  ¶ Also thou shalt take of the ram the fat and the rump, and the fat 
that covereth the inwards, and the caul above the liver, and the two 
kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right shoulder; for it 
 
is a ram of consecration: 
 
23  and one loaf of bread, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer 
out of the basket of the unleavened bread that is before the Lord: 
 
24  and thou shalt put all in the hands of Aaron, and in the hands of his 
sons; and shalt wave them for a wave offering before the Lord. 
 