  1103    Nehemiah 11 
4  And at Jerusalem dwelt certain of the children of Judah, and of the 
children of Benjamin. Of the children of Judah; Athaiah the son of 
 
Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of 
Shephatiah, the son of Mahalaleel, of the children of Perez; 
 
5  and Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Col-hozeh, the son of 
Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of 
Zechariah, the son of Shiloni. 
6  All the sons of Perez that dwelt at Jerusalem were four hundred 
threescore and eight valiant men. 
7  ¶ And these are the sons of Benjamin; Sallu the son of Meshullam, 
 
the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of 
Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jesaiah. 
8  And after him Gabbai, Sallai, nine hundred twenty and eight. 
9  And Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer: and Judah the son of 
 
Senuah was second over the city. 
10  ¶ Of the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin. 
 
11  Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of 
Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, was the ruler of the 
house of God. 
12  And their brethren that did the work of the house were eight 
hundred twenty and two: and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son 
 
of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of 
Pashur, the son of Malchiah, 
13  and his brethren, chief of the fathers, two hundred forty and two: 
 
and Amashai the son of Azareel, the son of Ahasai, the son of 
Meshillemoth, the son of Immer, 
14  and their brethren, mighty men of valor, a hundred twenty and 
eight: and their overseer was Zabdiel, the son of one of the great 
 
men. 
15  ¶ Also of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hashub, the son of 
 
Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni; 
 
16  and Shabbethai and Jozabad, of the chief of the Levites, had the 
oversight of the outward business of the house of God. 
17  And Mattaniah the son of Micha, the son of Zabdi, the son of 
Asaph, was the principal to begin the thanksgiving in prayer: and 
 