  1040    2 Chronicles 32 
11  Doth not Hezekiah persuade you to give over yourselves to die by 
famine and by thirst, saying, The Lord our God shall deliver us 
out of the hand of the king of Assyria? 
 
12  Hath not the same Hezekiah taken away his high places and his 
altars, and commanded Judah and Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall 
worship before one altar, and burn incense upon it? 
 
13  Know ye not what I and my fathers have done unto all the people 
of other lands? were the gods of the nations of those lands any ways 
 
able to deliver their lands out of mine hand? 
 
14  Who was there among all the gods of those nations that my fathers 
utterly destroyed, that could deliver his people out of mine hand, 
that your God should be able to deliver you out of mine hand? 
 
15  Now therefore let not Hezekiah deceive you, nor persuade you on 
this manner, neither yet believe him: for no god of any nation or 
 
kingdom was able to deliver his people out of mine hand, and out 
of the hand of my fathers: how much less shall your God deliver 
 
you out of mine hand? 
 
16  ¶ And his servants spake yet more against the Lord God, and 
against his servant Hezekiah. 
17  He wrote also letters to rail on the Lord God of Israel, and to 
speak against him, saying, As the gods of the nations of other lands 
have not delivered their people out of mine hand, so shall not the 
God of Hezekiah deliver his people out of mine hand. 
18  Then they cried with a loud voice, in the Jews’ speech, unto the 
people of Jerusalem that were on the wall, to affright them, and to 
trouble them; that they might take the city. 
 
19  And they spake against the God of Jerusalem, as against the gods of 
the people of the earth, which were the work of the hands of man. 
The Lord Delivers Hezekiah 
20  ¶ And for this cause Hezekiah the king, and the prophet Isaiah the 
son of Amoz, prayed and cried to heaven. 
21  And the Lord sent an angel, which cut off all the mighty men of 
valor, and the leaders and captains in the camp of the king of 