  877    2 Kings 17 
17  And they caused their sons and their daughters to pass through the 
fire, and used divination and enchantments, and sold themselves to 
do evil in the sight of the Lord, to provoke him to anger. 
18  Therefore the Lord was very angry with Israel, and removed them 
out of his sight: there was none left but the tribe of Judah only. 
 
19  ¶ Also Judah kept not the commandments of the Lord their God, 
but walked in the statutes of Israel which they made. 
20  And the Lord rejected all the seed of Israel, and afflicted them, 
and delivered them into the hand of spoilers, until he had cast 
them out of his sight. 
21  ¶ For he rent Israel from the house of David; and they made 
 
Jeroboam the son of Nebat king: and Jeroboam drave Israel from 
 
following the Lord, and made them sin a great sin. 
22  For the children of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboam which 
he did; they departed not from them; 
   
23  until the Lord removed Israel out of his sight, as he had said by all 
his servants the prophets. So was Israel carried away out of their 
own land to Assyria unto this day. 
The Repopulation of Samaria 
24  ¶ And the king of Assyria brought men from Babylon, and from 
Cuthah, and from Ava, and from Hamath, and from Sepharvaim, 
and placed them in the cities of Samaria instead of the children of 
Israel: and they possessed Samaria, and dwelt in the cities thereof. 
 
25  And so it was at the beginning of their dwelling there, that they 
feared not the Lord: therefore the Lord sent lions among them, 
 
which slew some of them. 
26  Wherefore they spake to the king of Assyria, saying, The nations 
which thou hast removed, and placed in the cities of Samaria, know 
not the manner of the God of the land: therefore he hath sent lions 
 
among them, and, behold, they slay them, because they know not 
the manner of the God of the land. 
27  Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, Carry thither one of 
the priests whom ye brought from thence; and let them go and 
 