  1784    Ezekiel 16 
cease from playing the harlot, and thou also shalt give no hire any 
more. 
42  So will I make my fury toward thee to rest, and my jealousy shall 
depart from thee, and I will be quiet, and will be no more angry. 
43  Because thou hast not remembered the days of thy youth, but hast 
fretted me in all these things; behold, therefore I also will 
 
recompense thy way upon thine head, saith the Lord God: and 
 
thou shalt not commit this lewdness above all thine abominations. 
44  ¶ Behold, every one that useth proverbs shall use this proverb 
against thee, saying, As is the mother, so is her daughter. 
45  Thou art thy mother’s daughter, that loatheth her husband and her 
children; and thou art the sister of thy sisters, which loathed their 
 
husbands and their children: your mother was a Hittite, and your 
 
father an Amorite. 
46  And thine elder sister is Samaria, she and her daughters that dwell 
at thy left hand: and thy younger sister, that dwelleth at thy right 
 
hand, is Sodom and her daughters. 
47  Yet hast thou not walked after their ways, nor done after their 
abominations: but, as if that were a very little thing, thou wast 
 
corrupted more than they in all thy ways. 
48  As I live, saith the Lord God, Sodom thy sister hath not done, she 
nor her daughters, as thou hast done, thou and thy daughters. 
49  Behold, this was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom, pride, fulness of 
bread, and abundance of idleness was in her and in her daughters, 
neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy. 
50  And they were haughty, and committed abomination before me: 
 
therefore I took them away as I saw good. 
51  Neither hath Samaria committed half of thy sins; but thou hast 
 
multiplied thine abominations more than they, and hast justified 
thy sisters in all thine abominations which thou hast done. 
52  Thou also, which hast judged thy sisters, bear thine own shame for 
thy sins that thou hast committed more abominable than they: 
 
they are more righteous than thou: yea, be thou confounded also, 
 
and bear thy shame, in that thou hast justified thy sisters. 