  668    1 Samuel 20 
15  but also thou shalt not cut off thy kindness from my house for ever: 
 
no, not when the Lord hath cut off the enemies of David every 
one from the face of the earth. 
16  So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let 
the Lord even require it at the hand of David’s enemies. 
17  And Jonathan caused David to swear again, because he loved him: 
 
for he loved him as he loved his own soul. 
18  ¶ Then Jonathan said to David, Tomorrow is the new moon: and 
 
thou shalt be missed, because thy seat will be empty. 
19  And when thou hast stayed three days, then thou shalt go down 
quickly, and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself when 
the business was in hand, and shalt remain by the stone Ezel. 
20  And I will shoot three arrows on the side thereof, as though I shot at 
a mark. 
21  And, behold, I will send a lad, saying, Go, find out the arrows. If I 
expressly say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of 
thee, take them; then come thou: for there is peace to thee, and no 
   
hurt; as the Lord liveth. 
 
22  But if I say thus unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are 
beyond thee; go thy way: for the Lord hath sent thee away. 
   
23  And as touching the matter which thou and I have spoken of, 
behold, the Lord be between thee and me for ever. 
24  ¶ So David hid himself in the field: and when the new moon was 
 
come, the king sat him down to eat meat. 
25  And the king sat upon his seat, as at other times, even upon a seat by 
the wall: and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul’s side, and 
 
David’s place was empty. 
26  ¶ Nevertheless Saul spake not any thing that day: for he thought, 
 
Something hath befallen him, he is not clean; surely he is not clean. 
 
27  And it came to pass on the morrow, which was the second day of the 
month, that David’s place was empty: and Saul said unto Jonathan 
 
his son, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to meat, neither 
yesterday, nor today? 
 
28  And Jonathan answered Saul, David earnestly asked leave of me to 
go to Bethlehem: 
 