  48    Genesis 22 
6  And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it upon 
Isaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife; and they 
   
went both of them together. 
7  And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father: and 
 
he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the 
wood: but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? 
   
8  And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a 
burnt offering: so they went both of them together. 
 
9  ¶ And they came to the place which God had told him of; and 
 
Abraham built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and 
bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood. 
10  And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay 
his son. 
11  And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven, and said, 
Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I. 
 
12  And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou any 
thing unto him: for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou 
 
hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me. 
13  And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold behind 
him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and 
 
took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead 
of his son.  
14  And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah-jireh: as it is 
 
said to this day, In the mount of the Lord it shall be seen. 
15  ¶ And the angel of the Lord called unto Abraham out of heaven 
the second time, 
16  and said, By myself have I sworn, saith the Lord, for because thou 
hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, 
17  that in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply 
thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is upon 
the seashore; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies; 
   
18  and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; because 
 
thou hast obeyed my voice. 
19  So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and 
went together to Beer-sheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beer-sheba. 
 