  744    2 Samuel 20 
¶ So Joab and Abishai his brother pursued after Sheba the son of 
Bichri. 
11  And one of Joab’s men stood by him, and said, He that favoreth 
Joab, and he that is for David, let him go after Joab. 
12  And Amasa wallowed in blood in the midst of the highway. And 
when the man saw that all the people stood still, he removed 
Amasa out of the highway into the field, and cast a cloth upon him, 
when he saw that every one that came by him stood still. 
13  When he was removed out of the highway, all the people went on 
after Joab, to pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri. 
14  ¶ And he went through all the tribes of Israel unto Abel, and to 
Beth-maachah, and all the Berites: and they were gathered 
 
together, and went also after him. 
15  And they came and besieged him in Abel of Beth-maachah, and 
they cast up a bank against the city, and it stood in the trench: and 
 
all the people that were with Joab battered the wall, to throw it 
down. 
16  Then cried a wise woman out of the city, Hear, hear; say, I pray 
 
you, unto Joab, Come near hither, that I may speak with thee. 
17  And when he was come near unto her, the woman said, Art thou 
Joab? And he answered, I am he. Then she said unto him, Hear the 
 
words of thine handmaid. And he answered, I do hear. 
18  Then she spake, saying, They were wont to speak in old time, 
saying, They shall surely ask counsel at Abel: and so they ended the 
 
matter. 
19  I am one of them that are peaceable and faithful in Israel: thou seekest 
 
to destroy a city and a mother in Israel: why wilt thou swallow up 
 
the inheritance of the Lord? 
 
20  And Joab answered and said, Far be it, far be it from me, that I 
should swallow up or destroy. 
21  The matter is not so: but a man of mount Ephraim, Sheba the son 
 
of Bichri by name, hath lifted up his hand against the king, even 
against David: deliver him only, and I will depart from the city. 
 
And the woman said unto Joab, Behold, his head shall be thrown to 
thee over the wall. 