  1082    Nehemiah 3 
6  ¶ Moreover the old gate repaired Jehoiada the son of Paseah, and 
Meshullam the son of Besodeiah; they laid the beams thereof, and 
 
set up the doors thereof, and the locks thereof, and the bars thereof. 
7  And next unto them repaired Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Jadon 
the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon, and of Mizpah, unto the 
throne of the governor on this side the river. 
8  Next unto him repaired Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, of the 
goldsmiths. Next unto him also repaired Hananiah the son of one of 
the apothecaries, and they fortified Jerusalem unto the broad wall. 
9  And next unto them repaired Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of 
the half part of Jerusalem. 
10  And next unto them repaired Jedaiah the son of Harumaph, even 
over against his house. And next unto him repaired Hattush the 
son of Hashabniah. 
11  Malchijah the son of Harim, and Hashub the son of Pahath-moab, 
repaired the other piece, and the tower of the furnaces. 
12  And next unto him repaired Shallum the son of Halohesh, the 
ruler of the half part of Jerusalem, he and his daughters. 
13  ¶ The valley gate repaired Hanun, and the inhabitants of Zanoah; 
 
they built it, and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the 
bars thereof, and a thousand cubits on the wall unto the dung gate. 
14  ¶ But the dung gate repaired Malchiah the son of Rechab, the ruler 
of part of Beth-haccerem; he built it, and set up the doors thereof, 
 
the locks thereof, and the bars thereof. 
15  ¶ But the gate of the fountain repaired Shallun the son of Col-
hozeh, the ruler of part of Mizpah; he built it, and covered it, and 
 
set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof, and 
the wall of the pool of Siloah by the king’s garden, and unto the 
stairs that go down from the city of David. 
16  After him repaired Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of the 
half part of Beth-zur, unto the place over against the sepulchres of 
David, and to the pool that was made, and unto the house of the 
mighty. 