  1662    Jeremiah 23 
18  For who hath stood in the counsel of the Lord, and hath perceived 
and heard his word? who hath marked his word, and heard it? 
   
19  Behold, a whirlwind of the Lord is gone forth in fury, even a 
grievous whirlwind: it shall fall grievously upon the head of the 
 
wicked. 
20  The anger of the Lord shall not return, until he have executed, 
and till he have performed the thoughts of his heart: in the latter 
 
days ye shall consider it perfectly. 
21  I have not sent these prophets, yet they ran: I have not spoken to 
 
them, yet they prophesied. 
22  But if they had stood in my counsel, and had caused my people to 
hear my words, then they should have turned them from their evil 
way, and from the evil of their doings. 
23  ¶ Am I a God at hand, saith the Lord, and not a God afar off? 
 
24  Can any hide himself in secret places that I shall not see him? saith 
 
the Lord. Do not I fill heaven and earth? saith the Lord. 
 
25  I have heard what the prophets said, that prophesy lies in my 
name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed. 
26  How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets that prophesy 
lies? yea, they are prophets of the deceit of their own heart; 
   
27  which think to cause my people to forget my name by their dreams, 
which they tell every man to his neighbor, as their fathers have 
forgotten my name for Baal. 
28  The prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a dream; and he that 
 
hath my word, let him speak my word faithfully. What is the chaff 
to the wheat? saith the Lord. 
 
29  Is not my word like as a fire? saith the Lord; and like a hammer 
   
that breaketh the rock in pieces? 
 
30  Therefore, behold, I am against the prophets, saith the Lord, that 
steal my words every one from his neighbor. 
31  Behold, I am against the prophets, saith the Lord, that use their 
tongues, and say, He saith. 
32  Behold, I am against them that prophesy false dreams, saith the 
Lord, and do tell them, and cause my people to err by their lies, 