  475    Deuteronomy 28 
30  Thou shalt betroth a wife, and another man shall lie with her: thou 
 
shalt build a house, and thou shalt not dwell therein: thou shalt 
 
plant a vineyard, and shalt not gather the grapes thereof. 
31  Thine ox shall be slain before thine eyes, and thou shalt not eat 
thereof: thine ass shall be violently taken away from before thy face, 
 
and shall not be restored to thee: thy sheep shall be given unto thine 
 
enemies, and thou shalt have none to rescue them. 
32  Thy sons and thy daughters shall be given unto another people, and 
thine eyes shall look, and fail with longing for them all the day long: 
 
and there shall be no might in thine hand. 
33  The fruit of thy land, and all thy labors, shall a nation which thou 
knowest not eat up; and thou shalt be only oppressed and crushed 
 
alway: 
 
34  so that thou shalt be mad for the sight of thine eyes which thou 
shalt see. 
35  The Lord shall smite thee in the knees, and in the legs, with a sore 
botch that cannot be healed, from the sole of thy foot unto the top 
of thy head. 
36  ¶ The Lord shall bring thee, and thy king which thou shalt set 
over thee, unto a nation which neither thou nor thy fathers have 
known; and there shalt thou serve other gods, wood and stone. 
 
37  And thou shalt become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword, 
among all nations whither the Lord shall lead thee. 
38  Thou shalt carry much seed out into the field, and shalt gather but 
little in; for the locust shall consume it. 
 
39  Thou shalt plant vineyards, and dress them, but shalt neither drink 
of the wine, nor gather the grapes; for the worms shall eat them. 
 
40  Thou shalt have olive trees throughout all thy coasts, but thou shalt 
not anoint thyself with the oil; for thine olive shall cast his fruit. 
 
41  Thou shalt beget sons and daughters, but thou shalt not enjoy 
them; for they shall go into captivity. 
 
42  All thy trees and fruit of thy land shall the locust consume. 
43  The stranger that is within thee shall get up above thee very high; 
 
and thou shalt come down very low. 