  1811    Ezekiel 26 
5  It shall be a place for the spreading of nets in the midst of the sea: for 
 
I have spoken it, saith the Lord God: and it shall become a spoil to 
 
the nations. 
6  And her daughters which are in the field shall be slain by the 
sword; and they shall know that I am the Lord. 
 
7  ¶ For thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I will bring upon Tyrus 
 
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, a king of kings, from the north, 
with horses, and with chariots, and with horsemen, and 
companies, and much people. 
8  He shall slay with the sword thy daughters in the field: and he shall 
 
make a fort against thee, and cast a mount against thee, and lift up 
the buckler against thee. 
9  And he shall set engines of war against thy walls, and with his axes 
he shall break down thy towers. 
10  By reason of the abundance of his horses their dust shall cover thee: 
 
thy walls shall shake at the noise of the horsemen, and of the 
wheels, and of the chariots, when he shall enter into thy gates, as 
men enter into a city wherein is made a breach. 
11  With the hoofs of his horses shall he tread down all thy streets: he 
 
shall slay thy people by the sword, and thy strong garrisons shall go 
down to the ground. 
12  And they shall make a spoil of thy riches, and make a prey of thy 
merchandise: and they shall break down thy walls, and destroy thy 
 
pleasant houses: and they shall lay thy stones and thy timber and 
 
thy dust in the midst of the water. 
13  And I will cause the noise of thy songs to cease; and the sound of 
 
thy harps shall be no more heard.  
14  And I will make thee like the top of a rock: thou shalt be a place to 
 
spread nets upon; thou shalt be built no more: for I the Lord have 
   
spoken it, saith the Lord God. 
15  ¶ Thus saith the Lord God to Tyrus; Shall not the isles shake at the 
 
sound of thy fall, when the wounded cry, when the slaughter is 
made in the midst of thee? 
 
16  Then all the princes of the sea shall come down from their thrones, 
and lay away their robes, and put off their broidered garments: they 
 