  840    2 Kings 4 
11  ¶ And it fell on a day, that he came thither, and he turned into the 
chamber, and lay there. 
12  And he said to Gehazi his servant, Call this Shunammite. And 
when he had called her, she stood before him. 
13  And he said unto him, Say now unto her, Behold, thou hast been 
careful for us with all this care; what is to be done for thee? 
   
wouldest thou be spoken for to the king, or to the captain of the 
host? And she answered, I dwell among mine own people. 
 
14  And he said, What then is to be done for her? And Gehazi 
 
answered, Verily she hath no child, and her husband is old. 
15  And he said, Call her. And when he had called her, she stood in the 
door. 
16  And he said, About this season, according to the time of life, thou 
shalt embrace a son. And she said, Nay, my lord, thou man of God, 
do not lie unto thine handmaid. 
17  And the woman conceived, and bare a son at that season that Elisha 
had said unto her, according to the time of life. 
18  ¶ And when the child was grown, it fell on a day, that he went out 
to his father to the reapers. 
19  And he said unto his father, My head, my head! And he said to a 
 
lad, Carry him to his mother. 
20  And when he had taken him, and brought him to his mother, he 
sat on her knees till noon, and then died. 
21  And she went up, and laid him on the bed of the man of God, and 
shut the door upon him, and went out. 
22  And she called unto her husband, and said, Send me, I pray thee, 
one of the young men, and one of the asses, that I may run to the 
man of God, and come again. 
23  And he said, Wherefore wilt thou go to him today? it is neither new 
 
moon, nor sabbath. And she said, It shall be well. 
24  Then she saddled an ass, and said to her servant, Drive, and go 
forward; slack not thy riding for me, except I bid thee. 
 
25  So she went and came unto the man of God to mount Carmel. 
¶ And it came to pass, when the man of God saw her afar off, that 
he said to Gehazi his servant, Behold, yonder is that Shunammite: 
 