  927    1 Chronicles 9 
19  And Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of 
Korah, and his brethren, of the house of his father, the Korahites, 
were over the work of the service, keepers of the gates of the 
tabernacle: and their fathers, being over the host of the Lord, were 
 
keepers of the entry. 
20  And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was the ruler over them in time 
past, and the Lord was with him. 
21  And Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was porter of the door of 
the tabernacle of the congregation. 
22  All these which were chosen to be porters in the gates were two 
hundred and twelve. These were reckoned by their genealogy in 
their villages, whom David and Samuel the seer did ordain in their 
set office. 
23  So they and their children had the oversight of the gates of the 
house of the Lord, namely, the house of the tabernacle, by wards. 
24  In four quarters were the porters, toward the east, west, north, and 
south. 
25  And their brethren, which were in their villages, were to come after 
seven days from time to time with them. 
26  For these Levites, the four chief porters, were in their set office, and 
were over the chambers and treasuries of the house of God. 
27  And they lodged round about the house of God, because the charge 
was upon them, and the opening thereof every morning pertained 
to them. 
28  ¶ And certain of them had the charge of the ministering vessels, that 
they should bring them in and out by tale. 
29  Some of them also were appointed to oversee the vessels, and all the 
instruments of the sanctuary, and the fine flour, and the wine, and 
the oil, and the frankincense, and the spices. 
30  And some of the sons of the priests made the ointment of the spices. 
31  And Mattithiah, one of the Levites, who was the firstborn of 
Shallum the Korahite, had the set office over the things that were 
made in the pans. 
32  And other of their brethren, of the sons of the Kohathites, were over 
the showbread, to prepare it every sabbath. 