  607    Judges 20 
Lord, and fasted that day until even, and offered burnt offerings 
and peace offerings before the Lord. 
27  And the children of Israel inquired of the Lord, (for the ark of the 
covenant of God was there in those days, 
28  and Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it 
in those days,) saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the 
children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And the Lord 
 
said, Go up; for tomorrow I will deliver them into thine hand. 
 
29  ¶ And Israel set liers in wait round about Gibeah. 
30  And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin 
on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at 
other times. 
31  And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and 
were drawn away from the city; and they began to smite of the 
 
people, and kill, as at other times, in the highways, of which one 
goeth up to the house of God, and the other to Gibeah in the field, 
about thirty men of Israel. 
32  And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before 
us, as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and 
draw them from the city unto the highways. 
33  And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put 
themselves in array at Baal-tamar: and the liers in wait of Israel 
 
came forth out of their places, even out of the meadows of Gibeah. 
34  And there came against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all 
Israel, and the battle was sore: but they knew not that evil was near 
 
them. 
35  And the Lord smote Benjamin before Israel: and the children of 
 
Israel destroyed of the Benjamites that day twenty and five 
thousand and a hundred men: all these drew the sword. 
 
36  ¶ So the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: for the 
 
men of Israel gave place to the Benjamites, because they trusted 
unto the liers in wait which they had set beside Gibeah. 
37  And the liers in wait hasted, and rushed upon Gibeah; and the liers 
 
in wait drew themselves along, and smote all the city with the edge 
of the sword. 