  239    Leviticus 6 
16  And the remainder thereof shall Aaron and his sons eat: with 
 
unleavened bread shall it be eaten in the holy place; in the court of 
 
the tabernacle of the congregation they shall eat it. 
17  It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it unto them for their 
portion of my offerings made by fire; it is most holy, as is the sin 
 
offering, and as the trespass offering. 
18  All the males among the children of Aaron shall eat of it. It shall be a 
statute for ever in your generations concerning the offerings of the 
Lord made by fire: every one that toucheth them shall be holy. 
 
19  ¶ And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, 
20  This is the offering of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer 
unto the Lord in the day when he is anointed; the tenth part of an 
 
ephah of fine flour for a meat offering perpetual, half of it in the 
morning, and half thereof at night. 
21  In a pan it shall be made with oil; and when it is baked, thou shalt 
 
bring it in: and the baked pieces of the meat offering shalt thou 
 
offer for a sweet savor unto the Lord. 
22  And the priest of his sons that is anointed in his stead shall offer it: 
 
it is a statute for ever unto the Lord; it shall be wholly burnt. 
 
23  For every meat offering for the priest shall be wholly burnt: it shall 
 
not be eaten. 
24  ¶ And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, 
25  Speak unto Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin 
offering: In the place where the burnt offering is killed shall the sin 
 
offering be killed before the Lord: it is most holy. 
 
26  The priest that offereth it for sin shall eat it: in the holy place shall 
 
it be eaten, in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
27  Whatsoever shall touch the flesh thereof shall be holy: and when 
 
there is sprinkled of the blood thereof upon any garment, thou 
shalt wash that whereon it was sprinkled in the holy place. 
28  But the earthen vessel wherein it is sodden shall be broken: and if it 
 
be sodden in a brazen pot, it shall be both scoured, and rinsed in 
water. 
29  All the males among the priests shall eat thereof: it is most holy. 
 