  151    Exodus 12 
14  ¶ And this day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keep 
 
it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations: ye shall keep it 
 
a feast by an ordinance for ever. 
15  Seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread; even the first day ye shall 
 
put away leaven out of your houses: for whosoever eateth leavened 
 
bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall be cut 
off from Israel. 
16  And in the first day there shall be a holy convocation, and in the 
seventh day there shall be a holy convocation to you; no manner of 
 
work shall be done in them, save that which every man must eat, 
that only may be done of you. 
17  And ye shall observe the feast of unleavened bread; for in this 
 
selfsame day have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt: 
 
therefore shall ye observe this day in your generations by an 
ordinance for ever. 
18  In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even, ye 
shall eat unleavened bread, until the one and twentieth day of the 
month at even. 
19  Seven days shall there be no leaven found in your houses: for 
 
whosoever eateth that which is leavened, even that soul shall be cut 
off from the congregation of Israel, whether he be a stranger, or 
born in the land. 
20  Ye shall eat nothing leavened; in all your habitations shall ye eat 
 
unleavened bread. 
21  ¶ Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said unto them, 
Draw out and take you a lamb according to your families, and kill 
the passover. 
22  And ye shall take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood that is in 
the basin, and strike the lintel and the two side posts with the blood 
that is in the basin; and none of you shall go out at the door of his 
 
house until the morning. 
23  For the Lord will pass through to smite the Egyptians; and when 
 
he seeth the blood upon the lintel, and on the two side posts, the 
Lord will pass over the door, and will not suffer the destroyer to 
come in unto your houses to smite you.  