  825    1 Kings 21 
4  And Ahab came into his house heavy and displeased because of the 
word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him: for he had 
 
said, I will not give thee the inheritance of my fathers. And he laid 
him down upon his bed, and turned away his face, and would eat 
no bread. 
5  ¶ But Jezebel his wife came to him, and said unto him, Why is thy 
spirit so sad, that thou eatest no bread? 
 
6  And he said unto her, Because I spake unto Naboth the Jezreelite, 
and said unto him, Give me thy vineyard for money; or else, if it 
 
please thee, I will give thee another vineyard for it: and he 
 
answered, I will not give thee my vineyard. 
7  And Jezebel his wife said unto him, Dost thou now govern the 
kingdom of Israel? arise, and eat bread, and let thine heart be 
 
merry: I will give thee the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite. 
 
8  ¶ So she wrote letters in Ahab’s name, and sealed them with his seal, 
and sent the letters unto the elders and to the nobles that were in 
his city, dwelling with Naboth. 
9  And she wrote in the letters, saying, Proclaim a fast, and set Naboth 
on high among the people: 
 
10  and set two men, sons of Belial, before him, to bear witness against 
him, saying, Thou didst blaspheme God and the king. And then 
carry him out, and stone him, that he may die. 
11  And the men of his city, even the elders and the nobles who were 
the inhabitants in his city, did as Jezebel had sent unto them, and as 
it was written in the letters which she had sent unto them. 
12  They proclaimed a fast, and set Naboth on high among the people. 
13  And there came in two men, children of Belial, and sat before him: 
 
and the men of Belial witnessed against him, even against Naboth, 
in the presence of the people, saying, Naboth did blaspheme God 
and the king. Then they carried him forth out of the city, and 
stoned him with stones, that he died. 
14  Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, Naboth is stoned, and is dead. 
15  ¶ And it came to pass, when Jezebel heard that Naboth was stoned, 
and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take possession of 