  1926    Joel 2 
16  gather the people, sanctify the congregation, assemble the elders, 
gather the children, and those that suck the breasts: let the 
 
bridegroom go forth of his chamber, and the bride out of her closet. 
17  Let the priests, the ministers of the Lord, weep between the porch 
and the altar, and let them say, Spare thy people, O Lord, and give 
not thine heritage to reproach, that the heathen should rule over 
them: wherefore should they say among the people, Where is their 
 
God? 
 
18  ¶ Then will the Lord be jealous for his land, and pity his people. 
19  Yea, the Lord will answer and say unto his people, Behold, I will 
send you corn, and wine, and oil, and ye shall be satisfied 
therewith: and I will no more make you a reproach among the 
 
heathen: 
 
20  but I will remove far off from you the northern army, and will drive 
him into a land barren and desolate, with his face toward the east 
sea, and his hinder part toward the utmost sea, and his stink shall 
come up, and his ill savor shall come up, because he hath done great 
things. 
21  ¶ Fear not, O land; be glad and rejoice: for the Lord will do great 
   
things. 
22  Be not afraid, ye beasts of the field: for the pastures of the 
 
wilderness do spring, for the tree beareth her fruit, the fig tree and 
the vine do yield their strength. 
23  Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and rejoice in the Lord your 
God: for he hath given you the former rain moderately, and he will 
 
cause to come down for you the rain, the former rain, and the latter 
rain in the first month. 
24  And the floors shall be full of wheat, and the vats shall overflow 
with wine and oil. 
25  And I will restore to you the years that the locust hath eaten, the 
cankerworm, and the caterpillar, and the palmerworm, my great 
army which I sent among you. 
26  And ye shall eat in plenty, and be satisfied, and praise the name of 
the Lord your God, that hath dealt wondrously with you: and my 
 
people shall never be ashamed. 