  621    1 Samuel 1 
me, and not forget thine handmaid, but wilt give unto thine 
handmaid a man child, then I will give him unto the Lord all the 
days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.  
12  ¶ And it came to pass, as she continued praying before the Lord, 
that Eli marked her mouth. 
13  Now Hannah, she spake in her heart; only her lips moved, but her 
 
voice was not heard: therefore Eli thought she had been drunken. 
 
14  And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away 
 
thy wine from thee. 
15  And Hannah answered and said, No, my lord, I am a woman of a 
sorrowful spirit: I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but 
 
have poured out my soul before the Lord. 
16  Count not thine handmaid for a daughter of Belial: for out of the 
 
abundance of my complaint and grief have I spoken hitherto. 
17  Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace: and the God of Israel 
 
grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him. 
18  And she said, Let thine handmaid find grace in thy sight. So the 
woman went her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no 
more sad. 
19  ¶ And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before 
the Lord, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah: and 
 
Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and the Lord remembered her. 
 
20  Wherefore it came to pass, when the time was come about after 
Hannah had conceived, that she bare a son, and called his name 
Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of the Lord. 
21  ¶ And the man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto 
the Lord the yearly sacrifice, and his vow. 
22  But Hannah went not up; for she said unto her husband, I will not 
 
go up until the child be weaned, and then I will bring him, that he 
may appear before the Lord, and there abide for ever. 
23  And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do what seemeth thee 
good; tarry until thou have weaned him; only the Lord establish 
   
his word. So the woman abode, and gave her son suck until she 
weaned him. 