  1075    Ezra 10 
thither, he did eat no bread, nor drink water: for he mourned 
 
because of the transgression of them that had been carried away. 
7  And they made proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem 
unto all the children of the captivity, that they should gather 
themselves together unto Jerusalem; 
 
8  and that whosoever would not come within three days, according 
to the counsel of the princes and the elders, all his substance should 
be forfeited, and himself separated from the congregation of those 
that had been carried away. 
9  ¶ Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered themselves 
together unto Jerusalem within three days. It was the ninth month, 
on the twentieth day of the month; and all the people sat in the 
 
street of the house of God, trembling because of this matter, and for 
the great rain. 
10  And Ezra the priest stood up, and said unto them, Ye have 
transgressed, and have taken strange wives, to increase the trespass 
of Israel. 
11  Now therefore make confession unto the Lord God of your 
fathers, and do his pleasure: and separate yourselves from the 
 
people of the land, and from the strange wives. 
12  Then all the congregation answered and said with a loud voice, As 
thou hast said, so must we do. 
13  But the people are many, and it is a time of much rain, and we are 
not able to stand without, neither is this a work of one day or two: 
 
for we are many that have transgressed in this thing. 
14  Let now our rulers of all the congregation stand, and let all them 
which have taken strange wives in our cities come at appointed 
times, and with them the elders of every city, and the judges 
thereof, until the fierce wrath of our God for this matter be turned 
from us. 
15  Only Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahaziah the son of Tikvah 
were employed about this matter: and Meshullam and Shabbethai 
 
the Levite helped them. 
16  ¶ And the children of the captivity did so. And Ezra the priest, with 
certain chief of the fathers, after the house of their fathers, and all 