  297    Leviticus 27 
2  Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When a man 
shall make a singular vow, the persons shall be for the Lord by thy 
estimation. 
3  And thy estimation shall be of the male from twenty years old even 
unto sixty years old, even thy estimation shall be fifty shekels of 
silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary. 
4  And if it be a female, then thy estimation shall be thirty shekels. 
5  And if it be from five years old even unto twenty years old, then thy 
estimation shall be of the male twenty shekels, and for the female 
ten shekels. 
6  And if it be from a month old even unto five years old, then thy 
estimation shall be of the male five shekels of silver, and for the 
female thy estimation shall be three shekels of silver. 
7  And if it be from sixty years old and above; if it be a male, then thy 
 
estimation shall be fifteen shekels, and for the female ten shekels. 
8  But if he be poorer than thy estimation, then he shall present 
himself before the priest, and the priest shall value him; according 
 
to his ability that vowed shall the priest value him. 
9  ¶ And if it be a beast, whereof men bring an offering unto the 
Lord, all that any man giveth of such unto the Lord shall be holy. 
10  He shall not alter it, nor change it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a 
good: and if he shall at all change beast for beast, then it and the 
 
exchange thereof shall be holy. 
11  And if it be any unclean beast, of which they do not offer a sacrifice 
unto the Lord, then he shall present the beast before the priest: 
 
12  and the priest shall value it, whether it be good or bad: as thou 
 
valuest it, who art the priest, so shall it be. 
13  But if he will at all redeem it, then he shall add a fifth part thereof 
unto thy estimation. 
14  ¶ And when a man shall sanctify his house to be holy unto the 
Lord, then the priest shall estimate it, whether it be good or bad: 
 
as the priest shall estimate it, so shall it stand. 
15  And if he that sanctified it will redeem his house, then he shall add 
the fifth part of the money of thy estimation unto it, and it shall be 
his. 