  1517    Isaiah 14 
8  Yea, the fir trees rejoice at thee, and the cedars of Lebanon, saying, 
Since thou art laid down, no feller is come up against us. 
9  Hell from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee at thy coming: it 
 
stirreth up the dead for thee, even all the chief ones of the earth; it 
 
hath raised up from their thrones all the kings of the nations. 
10  All they shall speak and say unto thee, Art thou also become weak 
as we? art thou become like unto us? 
   
11  Thy pomp is brought down to the grave, and the noise of thy viols: 
 
the worm is spread under thee, and the worms cover thee. 
12  ¶ How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! 
 
how art thou cut down to the ground, which didst weaken the 
nations! 
 
13  For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will 
exalt my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the 
 
mount of the congregation, in the sides of the north: 
 
14  I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the Most 
 
High. 
15  Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of the pit. 
16  They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee, and consider 
thee, saying, Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did 
shake kingdoms; 
 
17  that made the world as a wilderness, and destroyed the cities 
thereof; that opened not the house of his prisoners? 
   
18  All the kings of the nations, even all of them, lie in glory, every one 
in his own house. 
19  But thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable branch, and as 
the raiment of those that are slain, thrust through with a sword, 
that go down to the stones of the pit; as a carcass trodden under 
 
feet. 
20  Thou shalt not be joined with them in burial, because thou hast 
destroyed thy land, and slain thy people: the seed of evildoers shall 
 
never be renowned. 
21  ¶ Prepare slaughter for his children for the iniquity of their fathers; 
 
that they do not rise, nor possess the land, nor fill the face of the 
world with cities. 