  59    Genesis 26 
2  And the Lord appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into 
Egypt; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of. 
 
3  Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for 
 
unto thee, and unto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I 
will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father; 
 
4  and I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will 
give unto thy seed all these countries; and in thy seed shall all the 
 
nations of the earth be blessed:  
 
5  because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my 
commandments, my statutes, and my laws. 
6  ¶ And Isaac dwelt in Gerar. 
7  And the men of the place asked him of his wife; and he said, She is 
 
my sister: for he feared to say, She is my wife; lest, said he, the men 
   
of the place should kill me for Rebekah; because she was fair to look 
 
upon. 
8  And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that 
Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw, 
and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife. 
9  And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she is thy 
wife: and how saidst thou, She is my sister? And Isaac said unto 
   
him, Because I said, Lest I die for her. 
10  And Abimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto us? one of 
 
the people might lightly have lain with thy wife, and thou 
shouldest have brought guiltiness upon us. 
11  And Abimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheth 
this man or his wife shall surely be put to death. 
12  ¶ Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year a 
hundredfold: and the Lord blessed him. 
 
13  And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he 
became very great: 
 
14  for he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great 
store of servants: and the Philistines envied him. 
 
15  For all the wells which his father’s servants had digged in the days 
of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and filled 
them with earth. 