  599    Judges 18 
2  And the children of Dan sent of their family five men from their 
coasts, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out the 
land, and to search it; and they said unto them, Go, search the land: 
   
who when they came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah, 
they lodged there. 
3  When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the 
young man the Levite: and they turned in thither, and said unto 
 
him, Who brought thee hither? and what makest thou in this 
 
place? and what hast thou here? 
   
4  And he said unto them, Thus and thus dealeth Micah with me, and 
hath hired me, and I am his priest. 
5  And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God, that we 
may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous. 
6  And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before the Lord is 
 
your way wherein ye go. 
7  ¶ Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the 
people that were therein, how they dwelt careless, after the manner 
of the Zidonians, quiet and secure; and there was no magistrate in 
 
the land, that might put them to shame in any thing; and they were 
 
far from the Zidonians, and had no business with any man. 
8  And they came unto their brethren to Zorah and Eshtaol: and their 
 
brethren said unto them, What say ye? 
 
9  And they said, Arise, that we may go up against them: for we have 
 
seen the land, and, behold, it is very good: and are ye still? be not 
   
slothful to go, and to enter to possess the land. 
10  When ye go, ye shall come unto a people secure, and to a large land: 
 
for God hath given it into your hands; a place where there is no 
 
want of any thing that is in the earth. 
11  ¶ And there went from thence of the family of the Danites, out of 
Zorah and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men appointed with 
weapons of war. 
12  And they went up, and pitched in Kirjath-jearim, in Judah: 
 
wherefore they called that place Mahaneh-dan unto this day: 
 
behold, it is behind Kirjath-jearim. 