  54    Genesis 24 
40  And he said unto me, The Lord, before whom I walk, will send his 
angel with thee, and prosper thy way; and thou shalt take a wife for 
 
my son of my kindred, and of my father’s house: 
 
41  then shalt thou be clear from this my oath, when thou comest to my 
kindred; and if they give not thee one, thou shalt be clear from my 
 
oath. 
42  ¶ And I came this day unto the well, and said, O Lord God of my 
master Abraham, if now thou do prosper my way which I go: 
 
43  behold, I stand by the well of water; and it shall come to pass, that 
 
when the virgin cometh forth to draw water, and I say to her, Give 
me, I pray thee, a little water of thy pitcher to drink; 
 
44  and she say to me, Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy 
camels: let the same be the woman whom the Lord hath appointed 
 
out for my master’s son. 
45  ¶ And before I had done speaking in mine heart, behold, Rebekah 
came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder; and she went down 
 
unto the well, and drew water: and I said unto her, Let me drink, I 
 
pray thee. 
46  And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from her shoulder, 
and said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: so I drank, 
 
and she made the camels drink also. 
47  And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter art thou? And she said, 
 
The daughter of Bethuel, Nahors son, whom Milcah bare unto 
him: and I put the earring upon her face, and the bracelets upon 
 
her hands. 
48  And I bowed down my head, and worshipped the Lord, and 
blessed the Lord God of my master Abraham, which had led me in 
the right way to take my master’s brother’s daughter unto his son. 
49  And now, if ye will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell me: 
 
and if not, tell me; that I may turn to the right hand, or to the left. 
 
50  ¶ Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing 
proceedeth from the Lord: we cannot speak unto thee bad or 
 
good. 
51  Behold, Rebekah is before thee; take her, and go, and let her be thy 
 
master’s son’s wife, as the Lord hath spoken. 