  1737    Jeremiah 52 
remained in the city, and those that fell away, that fell to the king of 
Babylon, and the rest of the multitude. 
16  But Nebuzar-adan the captain of the guard left certain of the poor of 
the land for vinedressers and for husbandmen. 
17  ¶ Also the pillars of brass that were in the house of the Lord, and 
the bases, and the brazen sea that was in the house of the Lord, the 
Chaldeans brake, and carried all the brass of them to Babylon. 
18  The caldrons also, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the bowls, 
and the spoons, and all the vessels of brass wherewith they 
ministered, took they away. 
19  And the basins, and the firepans, and the bowls, and the caldrons, 
and the candlesticks, and the spoons, and the cups; that which was 
 
of gold in gold, and that which was of silver in silver, took the 
captain of the guard away. 
20  The two pillars, one sea, and twelve brazen bulls that were under 
the bases, which king Solomon had made in the house of the 
Lord: the brass of all these vessels was without weight. 
 
21  And concerning the pillars, the height of one pillar was eighteen 
cubits; and a fillet of twelve cubits did compass it; and the thickness 
   
thereof was four fingers: it was hollow. 
 
22  And a chapiter of brass was upon it; and the height of one chapiter 
 
was five cubits, with network and pomegranates upon the chapiters 
round about, all of brass. The second pillar also and the 
pomegranates were like unto these. 
23  And there were ninety and six pomegranates on a side; and all the 
 
pomegranates upon the network were a hundred round about.  
24  ¶ And the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, and 
Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the door: 
 
25  he took also out of the city a eunuch, which had the charge of the 
men of war; and seven men of them that were near the king’s 
 
person, which were found in the city; and the principal scribe of 
 
the host, who mustered the people of the land; and threescore men 
 
of the people of the land, that were found in the midst of the city. 
26  So Nebuzar-adan the captain of the guard took them, and brought 
them to the king of Babylon to Riblah. 