  603    Judges 19 
13  And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw near to one of 
these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah. 
14  And they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down 
 
upon them when they were by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin. 
15  And they turned aside thither, to go in and to lodge in Gibeah: and 
 
when he went in, he sat him down in a street of the city: for there 
 
was no man that took them into his house to lodging. 
16  ¶ And, behold, there came an old man from his work out of the 
field at even, which was also of mount Ephraim; and he sojourned 
 
in Gibeah: but the men of the place were Benjamites. 
 
17  And when he had lifted up his eyes, he saw a wayfaring man in the 
street of the city: and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and 
   
whence comest thou? 
 
18  And he said unto him, We are passing from Beth-lehem-judah 
toward the side of mount Ephraim; from thence am I: and I went to 
   
Beth-lehem-judah, but I am now going to the house of the Lord; 
 
and there is no man that receiveth me to house. 
19  Yet there is both straw and provender for our asses; and there is 
 
bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the 
young man which is with thy servants: there is no want of any thing. 
 
20  And the old man said, Peace be with thee; howsoever, let all thy 
 
wants lie upon me; only lodge not in the street. 
 
21  So he brought him into his house, and gave provender unto the 
asses: and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink. 
 
22  ¶ Now as they were making their hearts merry, behold, the men of 
the city, certain sons of Belial, beset the house round about, and 
beat at the door, and spake to the master of the house, the old man, 
saying, Bring forth the man that came into thine house, that we 
may know him. 
23  And the man, the master of the house, went out unto them, and 
said unto them, Nay, my brethren, nay, I pray you, do not so 
wickedly; seeing that this man is come into mine house, do not this 
 
folly. 