  1023    2 Chronicles 25 
greatly kindled against Judah, and they returned home in great 
anger. 
11  And Amaziah strengthened himself, and led forth his people, and 
went to the valley of salt, and smote of the children of Seir ten 
thousand. 
12  And other ten thousand left alive did the children of Judah carry 
away captive, and brought them unto the top of the rock, and cast 
them down from the top of the rock, that they all were broken in 
pieces. 
13  But the soldiers of the army which Amaziah sent back, that they 
should not go with him to battle, fell upon the cities of Judah, from 
Samaria even unto Beth-horon, and smote three thousand of them, 
and took much spoil. 
14  ¶ Now it came to pass, after that Amaziah was come from the 
slaughter of the Edomites, that he brought the gods of the children 
of Seir, and set them up to be his gods, and bowed down himself 
before them, and burned incense unto them. 
15  Wherefore the anger of the Lord was kindled against Amaziah, 
and he sent unto him a prophet, which said unto him, Why hast 
thou sought after the gods of the people, which could not deliver 
their own people out of thine hand? 
 
16  And it came to pass, as he talked with him, that the king said unto 
him, Art thou made of the king’s counsel? forbear; why shouldest 
   
thou be smitten? Then the prophet forbare, and said, I know that 
 
God hath determined to destroy thee, because thou hast done this, 
and hast not hearkened unto my counsel. 
17  ¶ Then Amaziah king of Judah took advice, and sent to Joash, the 
son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us 
see one another in the face. 
18  And Joash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, The 
thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon, 
saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passed by a 
 
wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trode down the thistle. 
19  Thou sayest, Lo, thou hast smitten the Edomites; and thine heart 
 
lifteth thee up to boast: abide now at home; why shouldest thou 
   