  465    Deuteronomy 24 
5  ¶ When a man hath taken a new wife, he shall not go out to war, 
neither shall he be charged with any business: but he shall be free at 
 
home one year, and shall cheer up his wife which he hath taken. 
6  ¶ No man shall take the nether or the upper millstone to pledge: 
 
for he taketh a man’s life to pledge. 
7  ¶ If a man be found stealing any of his brethren of the children of 
Israel, and maketh merchandise of him, or selleth him; then that 
 
thief shall die; and thou shalt put evil away from among you. 
 
8  ¶ Take heed in the plague of leprosy, that thou observe diligently, 
and do according to all that the priests the Levites shall teach you: 
 
as I commanded them, so ye shall observe to do.  
9  Remember what the Lord thy God did unto Miriam by the way, 
after that ye were come forth out of Egypt. 
10  ¶ When thou dost lend thy brother any thing, thou shalt not go 
into his house to fetch his pledge. 
11  Thou shalt stand abroad, and the man to whom thou dost lend 
shall bring out the pledge abroad unto thee. 
12  And if the man be poor, thou shalt not sleep with his pledge: 
 
13  in any case thou shalt deliver him the pledge again when the sun 
goeth down, that he may sleep in his own raiment, and bless thee: 
 
and it shall be righteousness unto thee before the Lord thy God.  
14  ¶ Thou shalt not oppress a hired servant that is poor and needy, 
whether he be of thy brethren, or of thy strangers that are in thy land 
within thy gates: 
 
15  at his day thou shalt give him his hire, neither shall the sun go 
down upon it; for he is poor, and setteth his heart upon it: lest he 
   
cry against thee unto the Lord, and it be sin unto thee.  
16  ¶ The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither 
shall the children be put to death for the fathers: every man shall be 
 
put to death for his own sin.  
17  ¶ Thou shalt not pervert the judgment of the stranger, nor of the 
fatherless; nor take a widow’s raiment to pledge: 
   
18  but thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt, and 
the Lord thy God redeemed thee thence: therefore I command 
 
thee to do this thing.  