  511    Joshua 8 
14  And it came to pass, when the king of Ai saw it, that they hasted 
and rose up early, and the men of the city went out against Israel to 
battle, he and all his people, at a time appointed, before the plain; 
 
but he wist not that there were liers in ambush against him behind 
the city. 
15  And Joshua and all Israel made as if they were beaten before them, 
and fled by the way of the wilderness. 
16  And all the people that were in Ai were called together to pursue 
after them: and they pursued after Joshua, and were drawn away 
 
from the city. 
17  And there was not a man left in Ai or Beth-el, that went not out 
after Israel: and they left the city open, and pursued after Israel. 
 
18  ¶ And the Lord said unto Joshua, Stretch out the spear that is in 
thy hand toward Ai; for I will give it into thine hand. And Joshua 
 
stretched out the spear that he had in his hand toward the city. 
19  And the ambush arose quickly out of their place, and they ran as 
soon as he had stretched out his hand: and they entered into the 
 
city, and took it, and hasted and set the city on fire. 
20  And when the men of Ai looked behind them, they saw, and, 
behold, the smoke of the city ascended up to heaven, and they had 
no power to flee this way or that way: and the people that fled to 
 
the wilderness turned back upon the pursuers. 
21  And when Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had taken the 
city, and that the smoke of the city ascended, then they turned 
again, and slew the men of Ai. 
22  And the other issued out of the city against them; so they were in 
 
the midst of Israel, some on this side, and some on that side: and 
 
they smote them, so that they let none of them remain or escape. 
23  And the king of Ai they took alive, and brought him to Joshua. 
24  ¶ And it came to pass, when Israel had made an end of slaying all 
the inhabitants of Ai in the field, in the wilderness wherein they 
chased them, and when they were all fallen on the edge of the 
sword, until they were consumed, that all the Israelites returned 
unto Ai, and smote it with the edge of the sword. 