  291    Leviticus 25 
32  Notwithstanding the cities of the Levites, and the houses of the 
cities of their possession, may the Levites redeem at any time. 
33  And if a man purchase of the Levites, then the house that was sold, 
and the city of his possession, shall go out in the year of jubilee: for 
 
the houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession among the 
children of Israel. 
34  But the field of the suburbs of their cities may not be sold; for it is 
 
their perpetual possession. 
35  ¶ And if thy brother be waxen poor, and fallen in decay with thee; 
 
then thou shalt relieve him: yea, though he be a stranger, or a 
 
sojourner; that he may live with thee.  
 
36  Take thou no usury of him, or increase: but fear thy God; that thy 
   
brother may live with thee. 
37  Thou shalt not give him thy money upon usury, nor lend him thy 
victuals for increase. 
38  I am the Lord your God, which brought you forth out of the land 
of Egypt, to give you the land of Canaan, and to be your God. 
39  ¶ And if thy brother that dwelleth by thee be waxen poor, and be 
sold unto thee; thou shalt not compel him to serve as a 
 
bondservant: 
 
40  but as a hired servant, and as a sojourner, he shall be with thee, and 
shall serve thee unto the year of jubilee: 
 
41  and then shall he depart from thee, both he and his children with 
him, and shall return unto his own family, and unto the possession 
of his fathers shall he return. 
42  For they are my servants, which I brought forth out of the land of 
Egypt: they shall not be sold as bondmen. 
 
43  Thou shalt not rule over him with rigor; but shalt fear thy God. 
 
44  Both thy bondmen, and thy bondmaids, which thou shalt have, 
shall be of the heathen that are round about you; of them shall ye 
 
buy bondmen and bondmaids. 
45  Moreover, of the children of the strangers that do sojourn among 
you, of them shall ye buy, and of their families that are with you, 
which they begat in your land: and they shall be your possession. 
 