  1864    Ezekiel 47 
3  ¶ And when the man that had the line in his hand went forth 
eastward, he measured a thousand cubits, and he brought me 
through the waters; the waters were to the ankles. 
 
4  Again he measured a thousand, and brought me through the 
waters; the waters were to the knees. Again he measured a 
 
thousand, and brought me through; the waters were to the loins. 
 
5  Afterward he measured a thousand; and it was a river that I could 
 
not pass over: for the waters were risen, waters to swim in, a river 
 
that could not be passed over. 
6  And he said unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen this? 
 
¶ Then he brought me, and caused me to return to the brink of the 
river. 
7  Now when I had returned, behold, at the bank of the river were 
very many trees on the one side and on the other. 
8  Then said he unto me, These waters issue out toward the east 
country, and go down into the desert, and go into the sea: which 
 
being brought forth into the sea, the waters shall be healed. 
9  And it shall come to pass, that every thing that liveth, which 
moveth, whithersoever the rivers shall come, shall live: and there 
 
shall be a very great multitude of fish, because these waters shall 
come thither: for they shall be healed; and every thing shall live 
   
whither the river cometh. 
10  And it shall come to pass, that the fishers shall stand upon it from 
Engedi even unto En-eglaim; they shall be a place to spread forth 
 
nets; their fish shall be according to their kinds, as the fish of the 
 
great sea, exceeding many. 
11  But the miry places thereof and the marshes thereof shall not be 
healed; they shall be given to salt. 
 
12  And by the river upon the bank thereof, on this side and on that 
side, shall grow all trees for meat, whose leaf shall not fade, neither 
shall the fruit thereof be consumed: it shall bring forth new fruit 
 
according to his months, because their waters they issued out of the 
sanctuary: and the fruit thereof shall be for meat, and the leaf 
 
thereof for medicine. 