  1901    Daniel 11 
22  And with the arms of a flood shall they be overflown from before 
him, and shall be broken; yea, also the prince of the covenant. 
 
23  And after the league made with him he shall work deceitfully: for 
 
he shall come up, and shall become strong with a small people. 
24  He shall enter peaceably even upon the fattest places of the 
province; and he shall do that which his fathers have not done, nor 
 
his fathers’ fathers; he shall scatter among them the prey, and spoil, 
 
and riches: yea, and he shall forecast his devices against the 
 
strongholds, even for a time. 
25  And he shall stir up his power and his courage against the king of 
the south with a great army; and the king of the south shall be 
 
stirred up to battle with a very great and mighty army; but he shall 
 
not stand: for they shall forecast devices against him. 
 
26  Yea, they that feed of the portion of his meat shall destroy him, and 
his army shall overflow: and many shall fall down slain. 
 
27  And both these kings’ hearts shall be to do mischief, and they shall 
speak lies at one table; but it shall not prosper: for yet the end shall 
   
be at the time appointed. 
28  Then shall he return into his land with great riches; and his heart 
 
shall be against the holy covenant; and he shall do exploits, and 
 
return to his own land. 
29  ¶ At the time appointed he shall return, and come toward the 
south; but it shall not be as the former, or as the latter. 
 
30  For the ships of Chittim shall come against him: therefore he shall 
 
be grieved, and return, and have indignation against the holy 
covenant: so shall he do; he shall even return, and have intelligence 
   
with them that forsake the holy covenant. 
31  And arms shall stand on his part, and they shall pollute the 
sanctuary of strength, and shall take away the daily sacrifice, and 
they shall place the abomination that maketh desolate.  
32  And such as do wickedly against the covenant shall he corrupt by 
flatteries: but the people that do know their God shall be strong, 
 
and do exploits. 