  722    2 Samuel 13 
I pray thee, let my sister Tamar come, and give me meat, and dress 
the meat in my sight, that I may see it, and eat it at her hand. 
6  So Amnon lay down, and made himself sick: and when the king 
 
was come to see him, Amnon said unto the king, I pray thee, let 
Tamar my sister come, and make me a couple of cakes in my sight, 
that I may eat at her hand. 
7  ¶ Then David sent home to Tamar, saying, Go now to thy brother 
Amnon’s house, and dress him meat. 
8  So Tamar went to her brother Amnon’s house; and he was laid 
 
down. And she took flour, and kneaded it, and made cakes in his 
sight, and did bake the cakes. 
9  And she took a pan, and poured them out before him; but he 
 
refused to eat. And Amnon said, Have out all men from me. And 
they went out every man from him. 
10  And Amnon said unto Tamar, Bring the meat into the chamber, 
that I may eat of thine hand. And Tamar took the cakes which she 
had made, and brought them into the chamber to Amnon her 
brother. 
11  And when she had brought them unto him to eat, he took hold of 
her, and said unto her, Come lie with me, my sister. 
12  And she answered him, Nay, my brother, do not force me; for no 
 
such thing ought to be done in Israel: do not thou this folly. 
 
13  And I, whither shall I cause my shame to go? and as for thee, thou 
 
shalt be as one of the fools in Israel. Now therefore, I pray thee, 
speak unto the king; for he will not withhold me from thee. 
 
14  Howbeit he would not hearken unto her voice: but, being stronger 
 
than she, forced her, and lay with her. 
15  ¶ Then Amnon hated her exceedingly; so that the hatred 
 
wherewith he hated her was greater than the love wherewith he 
had loved her. And Amnon said unto her, Arise, be gone. 
16  And she said unto him, There is no cause: this evil in sending me 
 
away is greater than the other that thou didst unto me. But he 
would not hearken unto her. 
17  Then he called his servant that ministered unto him, and said, Put 
now this woman out from me, and bolt the door after her. 