  241    Leviticus 7 
13  Besides the cakes, he shall offer for his offering leavened bread with 
the sacrifice of thanksgiving of his peace offerings. 
14  And of it he shall offer one out of the whole oblation for a heave 
offering unto the Lord, and it shall be the priest’s that sprinkleth 
the blood of the peace offerings. 
15  And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving 
shall be eaten the same day that it is offered; he shall not leave any 
 
of it until the morning. 
16  But if the sacrifice of his offering be a vow, or a voluntary offering, 
it shall be eaten the same day that he offereth his sacrifice; and on 
 
the morrow also the remainder of it shall be eaten: 
 
17  but the remainder of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall 
be burnt with fire. 
18  And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings be eaten 
at all on the third day, it shall not be accepted, neither shall it be 
imputed unto him that offereth it: it shall be an abomination, and 
 
the soul that eateth of it shall bear his iniquity. 
19  ¶ And the flesh that toucheth any unclean thing shall not be eaten; 
 
it shall be burnt with fire: and as for the flesh, all that be clean shall 
 
eat thereof. 
20  But the soul that eateth of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace 
offerings, that pertain unto the Lord, having his uncleanness upon 
him, even that soul shall be cut off from his people. 
21  Moreover the soul that shall touch any unclean thing, as the 
uncleanness of man, or any unclean beast, or any abominable 
unclean thing, and eat of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, 
which pertain unto the Lord, even that soul shall be cut off from 
his people. 
22  ¶ And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, 
23  Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, Ye shall eat no manner of 
fat, of ox, or of sheep, or of goat. 
24  And the fat of the beast that dieth of itself, and the fat of that which 
is torn with beasts, may be used in any other use: but ye shall in no 
 
wise eat of it. 