  408    Deuteronomy 1 
20  And I said unto you, Ye are come unto the mountain of the 
Amorites, which the Lord our God doth give unto us. 
21  Behold, the Lord thy God hath set the land before thee: go up and 
 
possess it, as the Lord God of thy fathers hath said unto thee; fear 
 
not, neither be discouraged. 
22  And ye came near unto me every one of you, and said, We will send 
men before us, and they shall search us out the land, and bring us 
word again by what way we must go up, and into what cities we 
shall come. 
23  And the saying pleased me well; and I took twelve men of you, one 
 
of a tribe: 
 
24  and they turned and went up into the mountain, and came unto 
the valley of Eshcol, and searched it out. 
25  And they took of the fruit of the land in their hands, and brought it 
down unto us, and brought us word again, and said, It is a good land 
which the Lord our God doth give us. 
26  ¶ Notwithstanding ye would not go up, but rebelled against the 
commandment of the Lord your God:  
 
27  and ye murmured in your tents, and said, Because the Lord hated 
us, he hath brought us forth out of the land of Egypt, to deliver us 
into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us. 
28  Whither shall we go up? our brethren have discouraged our heart, 
 
saying, The people is greater and taller than we; the cities are great 
 
and walled up to heaven; and moreover we have seen the sons of 
 
the Anakim there. 
29  Then I said unto you, Dread not, neither be afraid of them. 
30  The Lord your God which goeth before you, he shall fight for you, 
according to all that he did for you in Egypt before your eyes; 
 
31  and in the wilderness, where thou hast seen how that the Lord thy 
God bare thee, as a man doth bear his son, in all the way that ye 
went, until ye came into this place. 
32  Yet in this thing ye did not believe the Lord your God,  
33  who went in the way before you, to search you out a place to pitch 
your tents in, in fire by night, to show you by what way ye should 
go, and in a cloud by day. 