  1032    2 Chronicles 29 
17  Now they began on the first day of the first month to sanctify, and 
on the eighth day of the month came they to the porch of the 
Lord: so they sanctified the house of the Lord in eight days; and 
   
in the sixteenth day of the first month they made an end. 
18  Then they went in to Hezekiah the king, and said, We have 
cleansed all the house of the Lord, and the altar of burnt offering, 
with all the vessels thereof, and the showbread table, with all the 
vessels thereof. 
19  Moreover all the vessels, which king Ahaz in his reign did cast away 
in his transgression, have we prepared and sanctified, and, behold, 
they are before the altar of the Lord. 
20  ¶ Then Hezekiah the king rose early, and gathered the rulers of the 
city, and went up to the house of the Lord. 
21  And they brought seven bullocks, and seven rams, and seven lambs, 
and seven he goats, for a sin offering for the kingdom, and for the 
sanctuary, and for Judah. And he commanded the priests the sons 
of Aaron to offer them on the altar of the Lord. 
22  So they killed the bullocks, and the priests received the blood, and 
sprinkled it on the altar: likewise, when they had killed the rams, 
 
they sprinkled the blood upon the altar: they killed also the lambs, 
 
and they sprinkled the blood upon the altar. 
23  And they brought forth the he goats for the sin offering before the 
king and the congregation; and they laid their hands upon them: 
   
24  and the priests killed them, and they made reconciliation with 
their blood upon the altar, to make an atonement for all Israel: for 
 
the king commanded that the burnt offering and the sin offering 
should be made for all Israel. 
25  ¶ And he set the Levites in the house of the Lord with cymbals, 
with psalteries, and with harps, according to the commandment of 
David, and of Gad the king’s seer, and Nathan the prophet: for so 
 
was the commandment of the Lord by his prophets. 
26  And the Levites stood with the instruments of David, and the 
priests with the trumpets. 
27  And Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt offering upon the 
altar. And when the burnt offering began, the song of the Lord 