  190    Exodus 28 
5  ¶ And they shall take gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and 
fine linen. 
6  And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue, and of purple, of 
scarlet, and fine twined linen, with cunning work. 
7  It shall have the two shoulderpieces thereof joined at the two edges 
thereof; and so it shall be joined together. 
 
8  And the curious girdle of the ephod, which is upon it, shall be of 
the same, according to the work thereof; even of gold, of blue, and 
 
purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen. 
9  And thou shalt take two onyx stones, and grave on them the names 
of the children of Israel: 
 
10  six of their names on one stone, and the other six names of the rest 
on the other stone, according to their birth. 
11  With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a 
signet, shalt thou engrave the two stones with the names of the 
children of Israel: thou shalt make them to be set in ouches of gold. 
 
12  And thou shalt put the two stones upon the shoulders of the ephod 
for stones of memorial unto the children of Israel: and Aaron shall 
 
bear their names before the Lord upon his two shoulders for a 
memorial. 
13  And thou shalt make ouches of gold; 
 
14  and two chains of pure gold at the ends; of wreathed work shalt 
 
thou make them, and fasten the wreathed chains to the ouches. 
15  ¶ And thou shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunning 
work; after the work of the ephod thou shalt make it; of gold, of 
   
blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twined linen, shalt 
thou make it. 
16  Foursquare it shall be being doubled; a span shall be the length 
 
thereof, and a span shall be the breadth thereof. 
17  And thou shalt set in it settings of stones, even four rows of stones: 
 
the first row shall be a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle: this shall be 
 
the first row. 
18  And the second row shall be an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond. 
19  And the third row a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst. 