  1847    Ezekiel 40 
27  And there was a gate in the inner court toward the south: and he 
 
measured from gate to gate toward the south a hundred cubits. 
28  ¶ And he brought me to the inner court by the south gate: and he 
 
measured the south gate according to these measures; 
 
29  and the little chambers thereof, and the posts thereof, and the 
arches thereof, according to these measures: and there were 
 
windows in it and in the arches thereof round about: it was fifty 
 
cubits long, and five and twenty cubits broad. 
30  And the arches round about were five and twenty cubits long, and 
five cubits broad. 
31  And the arches thereof were toward the outer court; and palm trees 
 
were upon the posts thereof: and the going up to it had eight steps. 
 
32  ¶ And he brought me into the inner court toward the east: and he 
 
measured the gate according to these measures. 
33  And the little chambers thereof, and the posts thereof, and the 
arches thereof, were according to these measures: and there were 
 
windows therein and in the arches thereof round about: it was fifty 
 
cubits long, and five and twenty cubits broad. 
34  And the arches thereof were toward the outward court; and palm 
 
trees were upon the posts thereof, on this side, and on that side: and 
 
the going up to it had eight steps. 
35  ¶ And he brought me to the north gate, and measured it according 
to these measures; 
 
36  the little chambers thereof, the posts thereof, and the arches 
thereof, and the windows to it round about: the length was fifty 
 
cubits, and the breadth five and twenty cubits. 
37  And the posts thereof were toward the outer court; and palm trees 
 
were upon the posts thereof, on this side, and on that side: and the 
 
going up to it had eight steps. 
38  ¶ And the chambers and the entries thereof were by the posts of the 
gates, where they washed the burnt offering. 
39  And in the porch of the gate were two tables on this side, and two 
tables on that side, to slay thereon the burnt offering and the sin 
offering and the trespass offering. 