  734    2 Samuel 17 
9  Behold, he is hid now in some pit, or in some other place: and it will 
 
come to pass, when some of them be overthrown at the first, that 
whosoever heareth it will say, There is a slaughter among the 
people that follow Absalom. 
10  And he also that is valiant, whose heart is as the heart of a lion, shall 
utterly melt: for all Israel knoweth that thy father is a mighty man, 
 
and they which be with him are valiant men. 
11  Therefore I counsel that all Israel be generally gathered unto thee, 
from Dan even to Beer-sheba, as the sand that is by the sea for 
multitude; and that thou go to battle in thine own person. 
 
12  So shall we come upon him in some place where he shall be found, 
and we will light upon him as the dew falleth on the ground: and of 
 
him and of all the men that are with him there shall not be left so 
much as one. 
13  Moreover if he be gotten into a city, then shall all Israel bring ropes 
to that city, and we will draw it into the river, until there be not one 
small stone found there. 
14  And Absalom and all the men of Israel said, The counsel of Hushai 
the Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel. For the Lord 
had appointed to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, to the 
intent that the Lord might bring evil upon Absalom. 
15  ¶ Then said Hushai unto Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, Thus 
and thus did Ahithophel counsel Absalom and the elders of Israel; 
 
and thus and thus have I counseled. 
16  Now therefore send quickly, and tell David, saying, Lodge not this 
night in the plains of the wilderness, but speedily pass over; lest the 
 
king be swallowed up, and all the people that are with him. 
17  Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz stayed by En-rogel; for they might not 
 
be seen to come into the city: and a wench went and told them; and 
   
they went and told king David. 
18  Nevertheless, a lad saw them, and told Absalom: but they went 
 
both of them away quickly, and came to a man’s house in Bahurim, 
which had a well in his court; whither they went down. 
 
19  And the woman took and spread a covering over the well’s mouth, 
and spread ground corn thereon; and the thing was not known. 
 