  75    Genesis 31 
29  It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt: but the God of your 
 
father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take thou heed that thou 
speak not to Jacob either good or bad. 
30  And now, though thou wouldest needs be gone, because thou sore 
longedst after thy father’s house, yet wherefore hast thou stolen my 
gods? 
 
31  And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was afraid: for I 
 
said, Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thy daughters from 
me. 
32  With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, let him not live: before 
 
our brethren discern thou what is thine with me, and take it to 
thee. For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them. 
33  ¶ And Laban went into Jacob’s tent, and into Leah’s tent, and into 
the two maidservants’ tents; but he found them not. Then went he 
 
out of Leah’s tent, and entered into Rachel’s tent. 
34  Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel’s 
furniture, and sat upon them. And Laban searched all the tent, but 
found them not. 
35  And she said to her father, Let it not displease my lord that I cannot 
rise up before thee; for the custom of women is upon me. And he 
 
searched, but found not the images. 
36  ¶ And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban: and Jacob answered 
 
and said to Laban, What is my trespass? what is my sin, that thou 
 
hast so hotly pursued after me? 
 
37  Whereas thou hast searched all my stuff, what hast thou found of 
all thy household stuff? set it here before my brethren and thy 
 
brethren, that they may judge betwixt us both. 
38  This twenty years have I been with thee; thy ewes and thy she goats 
 
have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I not 
eaten. 
39  That which was torn of beasts I brought not unto thee; I bare the 
 
loss of it; of my hand didst thou require it, whether stolen by day, or 
 
stolen by night. 
40  Thus I was; in the day the drought consumed me, and the frost by 
 
night; and my sleep departed from mine eyes. 
 