  93    Genesis 38 
18  And he said, What pledge shall I give thee? And she said, Thy 
 
signet, and thy bracelets, and thy staff that is in thine hand. And he 
gave it her, and came in unto her, and she conceived by him. 
19  And she arose, and went away, and laid by her veil from her, and 
put on the garments of her widowhood. 
20  ¶ And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite, 
to receive his pledge from the woman’s hand: but he found her not. 
 
21  Then he asked the men of that place, saying, Where is the harlot, 
that was openly by the wayside? And they said, There was no harlot 
 
in this place. 
22  And he returned to Judah, and said, I cannot find her; and also the 
 
men of the place said, that there was no harlot in this place. 
23  And Judah said, Let her take it to her, lest we be shamed: behold, I 
 
sent this kid, and thou hast not found her. 
24  ¶ And it came to pass about three months after, that it was told 
Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter-in-law hath played the harlot; 
 
and also, behold, she is with child by whoredom. And Judah said, 
Bring her forth, and let her be burnt. 
25  When she was brought forth she sent to her father-in-law, saying, 
By the man, whose these are, am I with child: and she said, Discern, 
 
I pray thee, whose are these, the signet, and bracelets, and staff. 
26  And Judah acknowledged them, and said, She hath been more 
righteous than I; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son. And 
 
he knew her again no more. 
27  ¶ And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold, twins 
were in her womb. 
28  And it came to pass, when she travailed, that the one put out his 
hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet 
 
thread, saying, This came out first. 
29  And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that, behold, his 
brother came out: and she said, How hast thou broken forth? this 
   
breach be upon thee: therefore his name was called Pharez. 
 
30  And afterward came out his brother, that had the scarlet thread 
upon his hand: and his name was called Zarah. 
 