  1020    2 Chronicles 24 
8  ¶ And at the king’s commandment they made a chest, and set it 
without at the gate of the house of the Lord. 
9  And they made a proclamation through Judah and Jerusalem, to 
bring in to the Lord the collection that Moses the servant of God 
laid upon Israel in the wilderness. 
10  And all the princes and all the people rejoiced, and brought in, and 
cast into the chest, until they had made an end. 
11  Now it came to pass, that at what time the chest was brought unto 
the king’s office by the hand of the Levites, and when they saw that 
there was much money, the king’s scribe and the high priest’s officer 
came and emptied the chest, and took it, and carried it to his place 
again. Thus they did day by day, and gathered money in 
abundance. 
12  And the king and Jehoiada gave it to such as did the work of the 
service of the house of the Lord, and hired masons and carpenters 
to repair the house of the Lord, and also such as wrought iron and 
brass to mend the house of the Lord. 
13  So the workmen wrought, and the work was perfected by them, 
and they set the house of God in his state, and strengthened it. 
14  And when they had finished it, they brought the rest of the money 
before the king and Jehoiada, whereof were made vessels for the 
house of the Lord, even vessels to minister, and to offer withal, and 
spoons, and vessels of gold and silver. And they offered burnt 
offerings in the house of the Lord continually all the days of 
Jehoiada. 
15  ¶ But Jehoiada waxed old, and was full of days when he died; a 
 
hundred and thirty years old was he when he died. 
16  And they buried him in the city of David among the kings, because 
he had done good in Israel, both toward God, and toward his 
house. 
17  ¶ Now after the death of Jehoiada came the princes of Judah, and 
made obeisance to the king. Then the king hearkened unto them. 
18  And they left the house of the Lord God of their fathers, and 
served groves and idols: and wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem 
 
for this their trespass. 