  1539    Isaiah 28 
12  To whom he said, This is the rest wherewith ye may cause the weary 
to rest; and this is the refreshing: yet they would not hear.  
   
13  But the word of the Lord was unto them precept upon precept, 
precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, 
   
and there a little; that they might go, and fall backward, and be 
 
broken, and snared, and taken. 
The Warning to Jerusalem 
14  ¶ Wherefore hear the word of the Lord, ye scornful men, that rule 
this people which is in Jerusalem. 
15  Because ye have said, We have made a covenant with death, and 
with hell are we at agreement; when the overflowing scourge shall 
 
pass through, it shall not come unto us: for we have made lies our 
 
refuge, and under falsehood have we hid ourselves: 
 
16  therefore thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I lay in Zion for a 
foundation a stone, a tried stone, a precious corner stone, a sure 
foundation: he that believeth shall not make haste.  
 
17  Judgment also will I lay to the line, and righteousness to the 
plummet: and the hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies, and the 
 
waters shall overflow the hiding place. 
18  And your covenant with death shall be disannulled, and your 
agreement with hell shall not stand; when the overflowing scourge 
 
shall pass through, then ye shall be trodden down by it. 
19  From the time that it goeth forth it shall take you: for morning by 
 
morning shall it pass over, by day and by night: and it shall be a 
 
vexation only to understand the report. 
20  For the bed is shorter than that a man can stretch himself on it: and 
 
the covering narrower than that he can wrap himself in it. 
21  For the Lord shall rise up as in mount Perazim, he shall be wroth 
as in the valley of Gibeon, that he may do his work, his strange 
work; and bring to pass his act, his strange act. 
 
22  Now therefore be ye not mockers, lest your bands be made strong: 
 
for I have heard from the Lord God of hosts a consumption, even 
determined upon the whole earth. 