  1825    Ezekiel 32 
18  Son of man, wail for the multitude of Egypt, and cast them down, 
even her, and the daughters of the famous nations, unto the nether 
parts of the earth, with them that go down into the pit. 
19  Whom dost thou pass in beauty? go down, and be thou laid with 
 
the uncircumcised. 
20  They shall fall in the midst of them that are slain by the sword: she is 
 
delivered to the sword: draw her and all her multitudes. 
 
21  The strong among the mighty shall speak to him out of the midst of 
hell with them that help him: they are gone down, they lie 
 
uncircumcised, slain by the sword. 
22  ¶ Asshur is there and all her company: his graves are about him: all 
   
of them slain, fallen by the sword: 
 
23  whose graves are set in the sides of the pit, and her company is 
round about her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, which 
 
caused terror in the land of the living. 
24  ¶ There is Elam and all her multitude round about her grave; all of 
 
them slain, fallen by the sword, which are gone down 
uncircumcised into the nether parts of the earth, which caused 
their terror in the land of the living; yet have they borne their 
 
shame with them that go down to the pit. 
25  They have set her a bed in the midst of the slain with all her 
multitude: her graves are round about him: all of them 
   
uncircumcised, slain by the sword: though their terror was caused 
 
in the land of the living, yet have they borne their shame with 
them that go down to the pit: he is put in the midst of them that be 
 
slain. 
26  ¶ There is Meshech, Tubal, and all her multitude: her graves are 
 
round about him: all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword, 
 
though they caused their terror in the land of the living. 
27  And they shall not lie with the mighty that are fallen of the 
uncircumcised, which are gone down to hell with their weapons of 
war: and they have laid their swords under their heads, but their 
 
iniquities shall be upon their bones, though they were the terror of 
the mighty in the land of the living. 