  1085    Nehemiah 4 
8  and conspired all of them together to come and to fight against 
Jerusalem, and to hinder it. 
9  Nevertheless we made our prayer unto our God, and set a watch 
against them day and night, because of them. 
10  ¶ And Judah said, The strength of the bearers of burdens is decayed, 
and there is much rubbish; so that we are not able to build the wall. 
 
11  And our adversaries said, They shall not know, neither see, till we 
come in the midst among them, and slay them, and cause the work 
to cease. 
12  And it came to pass, that when the Jews which dwelt by them came, 
they said unto us ten times, From all places whence ye shall return 
unto us they will be upon you. 
13  Therefore set I in the lower places behind the wall, and on the 
higher places, I even set the people after their families with their 
swords, their spears, and their bows. 
14  And I looked, and rose up, and said unto the nobles, and to the 
rulers, and to the rest of the people, Be not ye afraid of them: 
 
remember the Lord, which is great and terrible, and fight for your 
brethren, your sons, and your daughters, your wives, and your 
houses. 
15  ¶ And it came to pass, when our enemies heard that it was known 
unto us, and God had brought their counsel to nought, that we 
returned all of us to the wall, every one unto his work. 
16  And it came to pass from that time forth, that the half of my 
servants wrought in the work, and the other half of them held both 
the spears, the shields, and the bows, and the habergeons; and the 
 
rulers were behind all the house of Judah. 
17  They which builded on the wall, and they that bare burdens, with 
those that laded, every one with one of his hands wrought in the 
work, and with the other hand held a weapon. 
18  For the builders, every one had his sword girded by his side, and so 
builded. And he that sounded the trumpet was by me. 
19  And I said unto the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the rest of the 
people, The work is great and large, and we are separated upon the 
wall, one far from another. 