  1887    Daniel 6 
8  Now, O king, establish the decree, and sign the writing, that it be 
not changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which 
altereth not. 
9  Wherefore king Darius signed the writing and the decree. 
10  ¶ Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went 
into his house; and, his windows being open in his chamber toward 
 
Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and 
prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as he did aforetime. 
11  Then these men assembled, and found Daniel praying and making 
supplication before his God. 
12  Then they came near, and spake before the king concerning the 
king’s decree; Hast thou not signed a decree, that every man that 
 
shall ask a petition of any God or man within thirty days, save of 
thee, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions? The king answered 
 
and said, The thing is true, according to the law of the Medes and 
Persians, which altereth not. 
13  Then answered they and said before the king, That Daniel, which is 
of the children of the captivity of Judah, regardeth not thee, O 
king, nor the decree that thou hast signed, but maketh his petition 
three times a day. 
14  ¶ Then the king, when he heard these words, was sore displeased 
with himself, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him: and he 
 
labored till the going down of the sun to deliver him. 
15  Then these men assembled unto the king, and said unto the king, 
Know, O king, that the law of the Medes and Persians is, That no 
decree nor statute which the king establisheth may be changed. 
16  ¶ Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast 
him into the den of lions. Now the king spake and said unto Daniel, 
Thy God whom thou servest continually, he will deliver thee. 
17  And a stone was brought, and laid upon the mouth of the den; and 
 
the king sealed it with his own signet, and with the signet of his 
lords; that the purpose might not be changed concerning Daniel. 
 
18  Then the king went to his palace, and passed the night fasting: 
 
neither were instruments of music brought before him: and his 
 
sleep went from him. 