  1820    Ezekiel 30 
6  ¶ Thus saith the Lord; They also that uphold Egypt shall fall; and 
   
the pride of her power shall come down: from the tower of Syene 
 
shall they fall in it by the sword, saith the Lord God. 
7  And they shall be desolate in the midst of the countries that are 
desolate, and her cities shall be in the midst of the cities that are 
wasted. 
8  And they shall know that I am the Lord, when I have set a fire in 
Egypt, and when all her helpers shall be destroyed. 
9  ¶ In that day shall messengers go forth from me in ships to make 
the careless Ethiopians afraid, and great pain shall come upon 
them, as in the day of Egypt: for, lo, it cometh. 
 
10  ¶ Thus saith the Lord God; I will also make the multitude of Egypt 
 
to cease by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon. 
11  He and his people with him, the terrible of the nations, shall be 
brought to destroy the land: and they shall draw their swords 
 
against Egypt, and fill the land with the slain. 
12  And I will make the rivers dry, and sell the land into the hand of 
the wicked: and I will make the land waste, and all that is therein, 
 
by the hand of strangers: I the Lord have spoken it. 
 
13  ¶ Thus saith the Lord God; I will also destroy the idols, and I will 
 
cause their images to cease out of Noph; and there shall be no more 
 
a prince of the land of Egypt: and I will put a fear in the land of 
 
Egypt. 
14  And I will make Pathros desolate, and will set fire in Zoan, and will 
execute judgments in No. 
15  And I will pour my fury upon Sin, the strength of Egypt; and I will 
 
cut off the multitude of No. 
16  And I will set fire in Egypt: Sin shall have great pain, and No shall 
 
be rent asunder, and Noph shall have distresses daily. 
17  The young men of Aven and of Pi-beseth shall fall by the sword: 
 
and these cities shall go into captivity. 
18  At Tehaphnehes also the day shall be darkened, when I shall break 
there the yokes of Egypt: and the pomp of her strength shall cease 
 
in her: as for her, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters shall go 
 
into captivity. 