  1018    2 Chronicles 23 
9  Moreover Jehoiada the priest delivered to the captains of hundreds 
spears, and bucklers, and shields, that had been king David’s, which 
were in the house of God. 
10  And he set all the people, every man having his weapon in his 
hand, from the right side of the temple to the left side of the 
temple, along by the altar and the temple, by the king round about. 
11  Then they brought out the king’s son, and put upon him the 
crown, and gave him the testimony, and made him king. And 
Jehoiada and his sons anointed him, and said, God save the king. 
12  ¶ Now when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and 
praising the king, she came to the people into the house of the 
Lord: 
 
13  and she looked, and, behold, the king stood at his pillar at the 
entering in, and the princes and the trumpets by the king: and all 
 
the people of the land rejoiced, and sounded with trumpets, also 
the singers with instruments of music, and such as taught to sing 
praise. Then Athaliah rent her clothes, and said, Treason, treason. 
14  Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of hundreds that 
were set over the host, and said unto them, Have her forth of the 
ranges: and whoso followeth her, let him be slain with the sword. 
 
For the priest said, Slay her not in the house of the Lord. 
15  So they laid hands on her; and when she was come to the entering 
 
of the horse gate by the king’s house, they slew her there. 
16  ¶ And Jehoiada made a covenant between him, and between all the 
people, and between the king, that they should be the Lord’s 
people. 
17  Then all the people went to the house of Baal, and brake it down, 
and brake his altars and his images in pieces, and slew Mattan the 
priest of Baal before the altars. 
18  Also Jehoiada appointed the offices of the house of the Lord by the 
hand of the priests the Levites, whom David had distributed in the 
house of the Lord, to offer the burnt offerings of the Lord, as it is 
written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing, as it 
was ordained by David. 