  659    1 Samuel 17 
24  ¶ And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, 
and were sore afraid. 
25  And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? 
 
surely to defy Israel is he come up: and it shall be, that the man who 
 
killeth him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and will 
give him his daughter, and make his father’s house free in Israel. 
26  And David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall 
be done to the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the 
reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that 
 
he should defy the armies of the living God? 
 
27  And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it 
be done to the man that killeth him. 
28  ¶ And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men; 
 
and Eliab’s anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why 
camest thou down hither? and with whom hast thou left those few 
 
sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of 
 
thine heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the 
 
battle. 
29  And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? 
   
30  And he turned from him toward another, and spake after the same 
manner: and the people answered him again after the former 
 
manner. 
31  ¶ And when the words were heard which David spake, they 
rehearsed them before Saul: and he sent for him. 
 
32  And David said to Saul, Let no man’s heart fail because of him; thy 
 
servant will go and fight with this Philistine. 
33  And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this 
Philistine to fight with him: for thou art but a youth, and he a man 
 
of war from his youth. 
34  And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father’s sheep, and 
there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock: 
 
35  and I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his 
mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, 
 
and smote him, and slew him. 