  740    2 Samuel 19 
and he delivered us out of the hand of the Philistines; and now he is 
 
fled out of the land for Absalom. 
10  And Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. Now 
therefore why speak ye not a word of bringing the king back? 
 
11  ¶ And king David sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying, 
Speak unto the elders of Judah, saying, Why are ye the last to bring 
the king back to his house? seeing the speech of all Israel is come to 
 
the king, even to his house. 
12  Ye are my brethren, ye are my bones and my flesh: wherefore then 
 
are ye the last to bring back the king? 
 
13  And say ye to Amasa, Art thou not of my bone, and of my flesh? 
 
God do so to me, and more also, if thou be not captain of the host 
before me continually in the room of Joab. 
14  And he bowed the heart of all the men of Judah, even as the heart of 
one man; so that they sent this word unto the king, Return thou, 
 
and all thy servants. 
15  So the king returned, and came to Jordan. And Judah came to 
Gilgal, to go to meet the king, to conduct the king over Jordan. 
16  ¶ And Shimei the son of Gera, a Benjamite, which was of Bahurim, 
hasted and came down with the men of Judah to meet king David. 
17  And there were a thousand men of Benjamin with him, and Ziba the 
servant of the house of Saul, and his fifteen sons and his twenty 
servants with him; and they went over Jordan before the king. 
 
18  And there went over a ferryboat to carry over the king’s household, 
and to do what he thought good. And Shimei the son of Gera fell 
down before the king, as he was come over Jordan; 
 
19  and said unto the king, Let not my lord impute iniquity unto me, 
neither do thou remember that which thy servant did perversely 
the day that my lord the king went out of Jerusalem, that the king 
should take it to his heart. 
20  For thy servant doth know that I have sinned: therefore, behold, I 
 
am come the first this day of all the house of Joseph to go down to 
meet my lord the king. 
21  But Abishai the son of Zeruiah answered and said, Shall not Shimei 
be put to death for this, because he cursed the Lord’s anointed? 
 