  738    2 Samuel 18 
22  Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok yet again to Joab, But 
howsoever, let me, I pray thee, also run after Cushi. And Joab said, 
Wherefore wilt thou run, my son, seeing that thou hast no tidings 
ready? 
 
23  But howsoever, said he, let me run. And he said unto him, Run. 
Then Ahimaaz ran by the way of the plain, and overran Cushi. 
24  ¶ And David sat between the two gates: and the watchman went up 
 
to the roof over the gate unto the wall, and lifted up his eyes, and 
looked, and behold a man running alone. 
25  And the watchman cried, and told the king. And the king said, If 
he be alone, there is tidings in his mouth. And he came apace, and 
drew near. 
26  And the watchman saw another man running: and the watchman 
 
called unto the porter, and said, Behold another man running 
alone. And the king said, He also bringeth tidings. 
27  And the watchman said, Methinketh the running of the foremost is 
like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok. And the king said, 
He is a good man, and cometh with good tidings. 
28  ¶ And Ahimaaz called, and said unto the king, All is well. And he 
fell down to the earth upon his face before the king, and said, 
Blessed be the Lord thy God, which hath delivered up the men 
that lifted up their hand against my lord the king. 
29  And the king said, Is the young man Absalom safe? And Ahimaaz 
 
answered, When Joab sent the king’s servant, and me thy servant, I 
saw a great tumult, but I knew not what it was. 
30  And the king said unto him, Turn aside, and stand here. And he 
turned aside, and stood still. 
31  ¶ And, behold, Cushi came; and Cushi said, Tidings, my lord the 
 
king: for the Lord hath avenged thee this day of all them that rose 
 
up against thee. 
32  And the king said unto Cushi, Is the young man Absalom safe? And 
 
Cushi answered, The enemies of my lord the king, and all that rise 
against thee to do thee hurt, be as that young man is. 
33  And the king was much moved, and went up to the chamber over 
the gate, and wept: and as he went, thus he said, O my son 
 