  1845    Ezekiel 40 
4  And the man said unto me, Son of man, behold with thine eyes, 
and hear with thine ears, and set thine heart upon all that I shall 
show thee; for to the intent that I might show them unto thee art 
 
thou brought hither: declare all that thou seest to the house of 
 
Israel. 
5  ¶ And behold a wall on the outside of the house round about, and 
in the man’s hand a measuring reed of six cubits long by the cubit 
and a handbreadth: so he measured the breadth of the building, 
 
one reed; and the height, one reed. 
 
6  Then came he unto the gate which looketh toward the east, and 
went up the stairs thereof, and measured the threshold of the gate, 
which was one reed broad; and the other threshold of the gate, which 
 
was one reed broad. 
7  And every little chamber was one reed long, and one reed broad; 
 
and between the little chambers were five cubits; and the threshold 
 
of the gate by the porch of the gate within was one reed. 
8  He measured also the porch of the gate within, one reed. 
9  Then measured he the porch of the gate, eight cubits; and the posts 
 
thereof, two cubits; and the porch of the gate was inward. 
 
10  And the little chambers of the gate eastward were three on this side, 
and three on that side; they three were of one measure: and the 
   
posts had one measure on this side and on that side. 
11  And he measured the breadth of the entry of the gate, ten cubits; 
 
and the length of the gate, thirteen cubits. 
12  The space also before the little chambers was one cubit on this side, 
and the space was one cubit on that side: and the little chambers 
 
were six cubits on this side, and six cubits on that side. 
13  He measured then the gate from the roof of one little chamber to 
the roof of another: the breadth was five and twenty cubits, door 
 
against door. 
14  He made also posts of threescore cubits, even unto the post of the 
court round about the gate. 
15  And from the face of the gate of the entrance unto the face of the 
porch of the inner gate were fifty cubits. 