  680    1 Samuel 25 
parched corn, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred 
cakes of figs, and laid them on asses. 
19  And she said unto her servants, Go on before me; behold, I come 
 
after you. But she told not her husband Nabal. 
20  And it was so, as she rode on the ass, that she came down by the 
covert of the hill, and, behold, David and his men came down 
against her; and she met them. 
 
21  Now David had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow 
hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that 
pertained unto him: and he hath requited me evil for good. 
 
22  So and more also do God unto the enemies of David, if I leave of all 
that pertain to him by the morning light any that pisseth against the 
wall. 
23  ¶ And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and lighted off the ass, 
and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground, 
24  and fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, upon me let this 
iniquity be: and let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine 
 
audience, and hear the words of thine handmaid. 
25  Let not my lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial, even Nabal: 
 
for as his name is, so is he; Nabal [fool] is his name, and folly is with 
 
him: but I thine handmaid saw not the young men of my lord, 
 
whom thou didst send. 
26  Now therefore, my lord, as the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, 
seeing the Lord hath withholden thee from coming to shed blood, 
and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, now let thine 
enemies, and they that seek evil to my lord, be as Nabal. 
27  And now this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought unto 
my lord, let it even be given unto the young men that follow my 
lord. 
28  I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thine handmaid: for the Lord 
 
will certainly make my lord a sure house; because my lord fighteth 
 
the battles of the Lord, and evil hath not been found in thee all 
thy days. 
29  Yet a man is risen to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul: but the soul 
 
of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with the Lord thy 