  1798    Ezekiel 21 
12  Cry and howl, son of man; for it shall be upon my people, it shall be 
 
upon all the princes of Israel: terrors by reason of the sword shall be 
 
upon my people: smite therefore upon thy thigh. 
 
13  Because it is a trial, and what if the sword contemn even the rod? it 
 
shall be no more, saith the Lord God. 
14  ¶ Thou therefore, son of man, prophesy, and smite thine hands 
together, and let the sword be doubled the third time, the sword of 
the slain: it is the sword of the great men that are slain, which 
 
entereth into their privy chambers. 
15  I have set the point of the sword against all their gates, that their 
heart may faint, and their ruins be multiplied: ah! it is made bright, 
   
it is wrapped up for the slaughter. 
16  Go thee one way or other, either on the right hand, or on the left, 
whithersoever thy face is set. 
17  I will also smite mine hands together, and I will cause my fury to 
rest: I the Lord have said it. 
 
18  ¶ The word of the Lord came unto me again, saying, 
19  Also, thou son of man, appoint thee two ways, that the sword of the 
king of Babylon may come: both twain shall come forth out of one 
 
land: and choose thou a place, choose it at the head of the way to 
 
the city. 
20  Appoint a way, that the sword may come to Rabbath of the 
Ammonites, and to Judah in Jerusalem the defensed. 
21  For the king of Babylon stood at the parting of the way, at the head 
of the two ways, to use divination: he made his arrows bright, he 
 
consulted with images, he looked in the liver. 
22  At his right hand was the divination for Jerusalem, to appoint 
captains, to open the mouth in the slaughter, to lift up the voice 
with shouting, to appoint battering rams against the gates, to cast a 
mount, and to build a fort. 
23  And it shall be unto them as a false divination in their sight, to 
them that have sworn oaths: but he will call to remembrance the 
 
iniquity, that they may be taken. 
24  ¶ Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Because ye have made your 
 
iniquity to be remembered, in that your transgressions are 