  677    1 Samuel 24 
5  And it came to pass afterward, that David’s heart smote him, 
because he had cut off Saul’s skirt. 
6  And he said unto his men, The Lord forbid that I should do this 
thing unto my master, the Lord’s anointed, to stretch forth mine 
hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of the Lord. 
7  So David stayed his servants with these words and suffered them 
not to rise against Saul. But Saul rose up out of the cave, and went 
on his way. 
8  ¶ David also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried 
after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked behind 
him, David stooped with his face to the earth, and bowed himself. 
9  And David said to Saul, Wherefore hearest thou men’s words, 
saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt? 
 
10  Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that the Lord hath 
delivered thee today into mine hand in the cave: and some bade me 
 
kill thee: but mine eye spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth 
   
mine hand against my lord; for he is the Lord’s anointed. 
 
11  Moreover, my father, see, yea, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand: 
 
for in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and killed thee not, know 
thou and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in mine 
hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou huntest my soul 
 
to take it. 
12  The Lord judge between me and thee, and the Lord avenge me of 
thee: but mine hand shall not be upon thee. 
 
13  As saith the proverb of the ancients, Wickedness proceedeth from 
the wicked: but mine hand shall not be upon thee. 
 
14  After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou 
 
pursue? after a dead dog, after a flea. 
 
15  The Lord therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and 
see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thine hand. 
16  ¶ And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking 
these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son 
David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept. 
 
17  And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast 
 
rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil. 