  1117    Esther 3 
2  And all the king’s servants, that were in the king’s gate, bowed, and 
reverenced Haman: for the king had so commanded concerning 
 
him. But Mordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence. 
3  Then the king’s servants, which were in the king’s gate, said unto 
Mordecai, Why transgressest thou the king’s commandment? 
 
4  Now it came to pass, when they spake daily unto him, and he 
hearkened not unto them, that they told Haman, to see whether 
Mordecai’s matters would stand: for he had told them that he was a 
 
Jew. 
5  And when Haman saw that Mordecai bowed not, nor did him 
reverence, then was Haman full of wrath. 
6  And he thought scorn to lay hands on Mordecai alone; for they had 
 
showed him the people of Mordecai: wherefore Haman sought to 
 
destroy all the Jews that were throughout the whole kingdom of 
Ahasuerus, even the people of Mordecai. 
7  ¶ In the first month, that is, the month Nisan, in the twelfth year of 
king Ahasuerus, they cast Pur, that is, the lot, before Haman from 
day to day, and from month to month, to the twelfth month, that is, 
the month Adar. 
8  And Haman said unto king Ahasuerus, There is a certain people 
scattered abroad and dispersed among the people in all the 
provinces of thy kingdom; and their laws are diverse from all 
 
people; neither keep they the king’s laws: therefore it is not for the 
   
king’s profit to suffer them. 
9  If it please the king, let it be written that they may be destroyed: 
 
and I will pay ten thousand talents of silver to the hands of those 
that have the charge of the business, to bring it into the king’s 
treasuries. 
10  And the king took his ring from his hand, and gave it unto Haman 
the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the Jews’ enemy. 
11  And the king said unto Haman, The silver is given to thee, the 
people also, to do with them as it seemeth good to thee. 
12  ¶ Then were the king’s scribes called on the thirteenth day of the 
first month, and there was written according to all that Haman had 
commanded unto the king’s lieutenants, and to the governors that 