  1043    2 Chronicles 33 
and with wizards: he wrought much evil in the sight of the Lord, 
 
to provoke him to anger. 
7  And he set a carved image, the idol which he had made, in the 
house of God, of which God had said to David and to Solomon his 
son, In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen before all 
the tribes of Israel, will I put my name for ever: 
 
8  neither will I any more remove the foot of Israel from out of the 
land which I have appointed for your fathers; so that they will take 
 
heed to do all that I have commanded them, according to the whole 
law and the statutes and the ordinances by the hand of Moses.  
9  So Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to err, 
and to do worse than the heathen, whom the Lord had destroyed 
before the children of Israel. 
10  ¶ And the Lord spake to Manasseh, and to his people: but they 
 
would not hearken. 
11  Wherefore the Lord brought upon them the captains of the host 
of the king of Assyria, which took Manasseh among the thorns, and 
bound him with fetters, and carried him to Babylon. 
12  And when he was in affliction, he besought the Lord his God, and 
humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers, 
13  and prayed unto him: and he was entreated of him, and heard his 
 
supplication, and brought him again to Jerusalem into his 
kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the Lord he was God. 
14  ¶ Now after this he built a wall without the city of David, on the 
west side of Gihon, in the valley, even to the entering in at the fish 
gate, and compassed about Ophel, and raised it up a very great 
height, and put captains of war in all the fenced cities of Judah. 
15  And he took away the strange gods, and the idol out of the house of 
the Lord, and all the altars that he had built in the mount of the 
house of the Lord, and in Jerusalem, and cast them out of the city. 
16  And he repaired the altar of the Lord, and sacrificed thereon peace 
offerings and thank offerings, and commanded Judah to serve the 
Lord God of Israel. 
17  Nevertheless the people did sacrifice still in the high places, yet 
unto the Lord their God only. 