  797    1 Kings 12 
4  Thy father made our yoke grievous: now therefore make thou the 
 
grievous service of thy father, and his heavy yoke which he put 
upon us, lighter, and we will serve thee. 
5  And he said unto them, Depart yet for three days, then come again 
to me. And the people departed. 
6  ¶ And king Rehoboam consulted with the old men, that stood 
before Solomon his father while he yet lived, and said, How do ye 
advise that I may answer this people? 
 
7  And they spake unto him, saying, If thou wilt be a servant unto this 
people this day, and wilt serve them, and answer them, and speak 
good words to them, then they will be thy servants for ever. 
8  But he forsook the counsel of the old men, which they had given 
him, and consulted with the young men that were grown up with 
him, and which stood before him: 
 
9  and he said unto them, What counsel give ye that we may answer 
this people, who have spoken to me, saying, Make the yoke which 
thy father did put upon us lighter? 
 
10  And the young men that were grown up with him spake unto him, 
saying, Thus shalt thou speak unto this people that spake unto 
thee, saying, Thy father made our yoke heavy, but make thou it 
lighter unto us; thus shalt thou say unto them, My little finger shall 
 
be thicker than my father’s loins. 
11  And now whereas my father did lade you with a heavy yoke, I will 
add to your yoke: my father hath chastised you with whips, but I 
 
will chastise you with scorpions. 
12  ¶ So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, 
as the king had appointed, saying, Come to me again the third day. 
13  And the king answered the people roughly, and forsook the old 
men’s counsel that they gave him; 
 
14  and spake to them after the counsel of the young men, saying, My 
father made your yoke heavy, and I will add to your yoke: my 
 
father also chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with 
scorpions. 
15  Wherefore the king hearkened not unto the people; for the cause 
 
was from the Lord, that he might perform his saying, which the 