  2452    1 Corinthians 15 
34  Awake to righteousness, and sin not; for some have not the 
 
knowledge of God: I speak this to your shame. 
 
35  ¶ But some man will say, How are the dead raised up? and with 
 
what body do they come? 
 
36  Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened, except it die: 
 
37  and that which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall 
be, but bare grain, it may chance of wheat, or of some other grain: 
 
38  but God giveth it a body as it hath pleased him, and to every seed 
his own body. 
39  All flesh is not the same flesh: but there is one kind of flesh of men, 
 
another flesh of beasts, another of fishes, and another of birds. 
40  There are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial: but the glory of 
 
the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. 
41  There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and 
another glory of the stars; for one star differeth from another star in 
 
glory. 
42  ¶ So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it 
is raised in incorruption: 
 
43  it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory: it is sown in weakness, it 
 
is raised in power: 
 
44  it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. There is a 
natural body, and there is a spiritual body. 
45  And so it is written, The first man Adam was made a living soul; 
 
the last Adam was made a quickening spirit. 
46  Howbeit that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is 
natural; and afterward that which is spiritual. 
 
47  The first man is of the earth, earthy: the second man is the Lord 
 
from heaven. 
48  As is the earthy, such are they also that are earthy: and as is the 
 
heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly. 
49  And as we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the 
image of the heavenly. 
50  Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the 
kingdom of God; neither doth corruption inherit incorruption. 
 