  1818    Ezekiel 29 
midst of thy rivers, and all the fish of thy rivers shall stick unto thy 
scales. 
5  And I will leave thee thrown into the wilderness, thee and all the 
fish of thy rivers: thou shalt fall upon the open fields; thou shalt 
   
not be brought together, nor gathered: I have given thee for meat 
 
to the beasts of the field and to the fowls of the heaven. 
6  ¶ And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am the Lord, 
because they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel. 
7  When they took hold of thee by thy hand, thou didst break, and 
rend all their shoulder: and when they leaned upon thee, thou 
 
brakest, and madest all their loins to be at a stand. 
8  Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I will bring a sword 
 
upon thee, and cut off man and beast out of thee. 
9  And the land of Egypt shall be desolate and waste; and they shall 
 
know that I am the Lord. 
¶ Because he hath said, The river is mine, and I have made it, 
10  behold, therefore I am against thee, and against thy rivers, and I 
will make the land of Egypt utterly waste and desolate, from the 
tower of Syene even unto the border of Ethiopia. 
11  No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot of beast shall pass 
through it, neither shall it be inhabited forty years. 
12  And I will make the land of Egypt desolate in the midst of the 
countries that are desolate, and her cities among the cities that are 
laid waste shall be desolate forty years: and I will scatter the 
 
Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the 
countries. 
13  ¶ Yet thus saith the Lord God; At the end of forty years will I 
 
gather the Egyptians from the people whither they were scattered: 
 
14  and I will bring again the captivity of Egypt, and will cause them to 
return into the land of Pathros, into the land of their habitation; 
 
and they shall be there a base kingdom. 
15  It shall be the basest of the kingdoms; neither shall it exalt itself 
 
any more above the nations: for I will diminish them, that they 
 
shall no more rule over the nations. 