  650    1 Samuel 14 
hand, and dipped it in a honeycomb, and put his hand to his 
mouth; and his eyes were enlightened. 
 
28  Then answered one of the people, and said, Thy father straitly 
charged the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that 
eateth any food this day. And the people were faint. 
29  Then said Jonathan, My father hath troubled the land: see, I pray 
 
you, how mine eyes have been enlightened, because I tasted a little 
of this honey. 
30  How much more, if haply the people had eaten freely today of the 
spoil of their enemies which they found? for had there not been 
 
now a much greater slaughter among the Philistines? 
 
31  ¶ And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to 
Aijalon: and the people were very faint. 
 
32  And the people flew upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and 
calves, and slew them on the ground: and the people did eat them 
 
with the blood. 
33  Then they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against the 
Lord, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have 
transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this day. 
 
34  And Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and say unto 
them, Bring me hither every man his ox, and every man his sheep, 
and slay them here, and eat; and sin not against the Lord in eating 
 
with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with 
him that night, and slew them there. 
35  And Saul built an altar unto the Lord: the same was the first altar 
 
that he built unto the Lord. 
36  ¶ And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and 
spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of 
them. And they said, Do whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Then 
said the priest. Let us draw near hither unto God. 
37  And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the 
Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he 
   
answered him not that day. 
38  And Saul said, Draw ye near hither, all the chief of the people: and 
 
know and see wherein this sin hath been this day. 