  885    2 Kings 19 
23  By thy messengers thou hast reproached the Lord, and hast said, 
With the multitude of my chariots I am come up to the height of 
the mountains, to the sides of Lebanon, and will cut down the tall 
cedar trees thereof, and the choice fir trees thereof: and I will enter 
 
into the lodgings of his borders, and into the forest of his Carmel. 
24  I have digged and drunk strange waters, and with the sole of my 
feet have I dried up all the rivers of besieged places. 
25  ¶ Hast thou not heard long ago how I have done it, and of ancient 
times that I have formed it? now have I brought it to pass, that thou 
 
shouldest be to lay waste fenced cities into ruinous heaps. 
26  Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they were 
dismayed and confounded; they were as the grass of the field, and 
 
as the green herb, as the grass on the housetops, and as corn blasted 
before it be grown up. 
27  But I know thy abode, and thy going out, and thy coming in, and 
thy rage against me. 
28  Because thy rage against me and thy tumult is come up into mine 
ears, therefore I will put my hook in thy nose, and my bridle in thy 
lips, and I will turn thee back by the way by which thou camest. 
29  ¶ And this shall be a sign unto thee, Ye shall eat this year such things 
as grow of themselves, and in the second year that which springeth 
of the same; and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant 
 
vineyards, and eat the fruits thereof. 
30  And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shall yet 
again take root downward, and bear fruit upward. 
31  For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and they that escape 
out of mount Zion: the zeal of the Lord of hosts shall do this. 
 
32  ¶ Therefore thus saith the Lord concerning the king of Assyria, He 
shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come 
before it with shield, nor cast a bank against it. 
33  By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and shall not 
come into this city, saith the Lord. 
34  For I will defend this city, to save it, for mine own sake, and for my 
servant David’s sake. 