  1895    Daniel 9 
8  O Lord, to us belongeth confusion of face, to our kings, to our 
princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against thee. 
9  To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgivenesses, though we 
have rebelled against him; 
 
10  neither have we obeyed the voice of the Lord our God, to walk in 
his laws, which he set before us by his servants the prophets. 
11  Yea, all Israel have transgressed thy law, even by departing, that 
they might not obey thy voice; therefore the curse is poured upon 
 
us, and the oath that is written in the law of Moses the servant of 
God, because we have sinned against him. 
12  And he hath confirmed his words, which he spake against us, and 
against our judges that judged us, by bringing upon us a great evil: 
 
for under the whole heaven hath not been done as hath been done 
upon Jerusalem. 
13  As it is written in the law of Moses, all this evil is come upon us: yet 
 
made we not our prayer before the Lord our God, that we might 
turn from our iniquities, and understand thy truth. 
14  Therefore hath the Lord watched upon the evil, and brought it 
upon us: for the Lord our God is righteous in all his works which 
 
he doeth: for we obeyed not his voice. 
 
15  And now, O Lord our God, that hast brought thy people forth out 
of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and hast gotten thee 
renown, as at this day; we have sinned, we have done wickedly. 
 
16  O Lord, according to all thy righteousness, I beseech thee, let thine 
anger and thy fury be turned away from thy city Jerusalem, thy 
holy mountain: because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our 
 
fathers, Jerusalem and thy people are become a reproach to all that 
are about us. 
17  Now therefore, O our God, hear the prayer of thy servant, and his 
supplications, and cause thy face to shine upon thy sanctuary that is 
desolate, for the Lord’s sake. 
18  O my God, incline thine ear, and hear; open thine eyes, and behold 
 
our desolations, and the city which is called by thy name: for we do 
 
not present our supplications before thee for our righteousnesses, 
but for thy great mercies. 