  202    Exodus 32 
as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of 
Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.  
2  And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings, which 
are in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters, 
and bring them unto me. 
3  And all the people brake off the golden earrings which were in their 
ears, and brought them unto Aaron. 
4  And he received them at their hand, and fashioned it with a graving 
tool, after he had made it a molten calf: and they said, These be thy 
 
gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. 
5  And when Aaron saw it, he built an altar before it; and Aaron made 
 
proclamation, and said, Tomorrow is a feast to the Lord. 
6  And they rose up early on the morrow, and offered burnt offerings, 
and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat and to 
 
drink, and rose up to play.  
7  ¶ And the Lord said unto Moses, Go, get thee down; for thy 
 
people, which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt, have 
corrupted themselves: 
 
8  they have turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded 
them: they have made them a molten calf, and have worshipped it, 
 
and have sacrificed thereunto, and said, These be thy gods, O Israel, 
which have brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. 
9  And the Lord said unto Moses, I have seen this people, and, 
behold, it is a stiffnecked people: 
 
10  now therefore let me alone, that my wrath may wax hot against 
them, and that I may consume them: and I will make of thee a 
 
great nation. 
11  ¶ And Moses besought the Lord his God, and said, Lord, why 
doth thy wrath wax hot against thy people, which thou hast 
brought forth out of the land of Egypt with great power, and with a 
mighty hand? 
 
12  Wherefore should the Egyptians speak, and say, For mischief did he 
bring them out, to slay them in the mountains, and to consume 
them from the face of the earth? Turn from thy fierce wrath, and 
 
repent of this evil against thy people. 