  1854    Ezekiel 43 
defiled my holy name by their abominations that they have 
committed: wherefore I have consumed them in mine anger. 
 
9  Now let them put away their whoredom, and the carcasses of their 
kings, far from me, and I will dwell in the midst of them for ever. 
10  ¶ Thou son of man, show the house to the house of Israel, that they 
may be ashamed of their iniquities: and let them measure the 
 
pattern. 
11  And if they be ashamed of all that they have done, show them the 
form of the house, and the fashion thereof, and the goings out 
thereof, and the comings in thereof, and all the forms thereof, and 
all the ordinances thereof, and all the forms thereof, and all the 
laws thereof: and write it in their sight, that they may keep the 
 
whole form thereof, and all the ordinances thereof, and do them. 
12  This is the law of the house; Upon the top of the mountain the 
 
whole limit thereof round about shall be most holy. Behold, this is 
the law of the house. 
13  ¶ And these are the measures of the altar after the cubits: The cubit 
 
is a cubit and a handbreadth; even the bottom shall be a cubit, and 
 
the breadth a cubit, and the border thereof by the edge thereof 
round about shall be a span; and this shall be the higher place of the 
 
altar. 
14  And from the bottom upon the ground even to the lower settle shall 
be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit; and from the lesser settle 
 
even to the greater settle shall be four cubits, and the breadth one 
cubit. 
15  So the altar shall be four cubits; and from the altar and upward shall 
 
be four horns. 
16  And the altar shall be twelve cubits long, twelve broad, square in the 
four squares thereof. 
17  And the settle shall be fourteen cubits long and fourteen broad in the 
four squares thereof; and the border about it shall be half a cubit; 
   
and the bottom thereof shall be a cubit about; and his stairs shall 
 
look toward the east.  
18  ¶ And he said unto me, Son of man, thus saith the Lord God; 
 
These are the ordinances of the altar in the day when they shall 