  136    Exodus 6 
6  Wherefore say unto the children of Israel, I am the Lord, and I 
will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I 
will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with a 
stretched out arm, and with great judgments: 
 
7  and I will take you to me for a people, and I will be to you a God: 
 
and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God, which bringeth 
you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. 
8  And I will bring you in unto the land, concerning the which I did 
swear to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give it 
 
you for a heritage: I am the Lord. 
 
9  And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel: but they hearkened 
 
not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage. 
10  ¶ And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, 
11  Go in, speak unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the children of 
Israel go out of his land. 
12  And Moses spake before the Lord, saying, Behold, the children of 
Israel have not hearkened unto me; how then shall Pharaoh hear 
 
me, who am of uncircumcised lips? 
 
13  And the Lord spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, and gave them a 
charge unto the children of Israel, and unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, 
to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt. 
14  ¶ These be the heads of their fathers’ houses: The sons of Reuben 
 
the firstborn of Israel; Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi: 
   
these be the families of Reuben. 
15  And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, 
 
and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman: these are 
 
the families of Simeon. 
16  And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their 
generations; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari: and the years of 
   
the life of Levi were a hundred thirty and seven years. 
17  The sons of Gershon; Libni, and Shimi, according to their families. 
 
18  And the sons of Kohath; Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and 
 
Uzziel: and the years of the life of Kohath were a hundred thirty 
 
and three years. 