  822    1 Kings 20 
16  ¶ And they went out at noon. But Ben-hadad was drinking himself 
drunk in the pavilions, he and the kings, the thirty and two kings 
that helped him. 
17  And the young men of the princes of the provinces went out first; 
 
and Ben-hadad sent out, and they told him, saying, There are men 
come out of Samaria. 
18  And he said, Whether they be come out for peace, take them alive; 
 
or whether they be come out for war, take them alive. 
19  ¶ So these young men of the princes of the provinces came out of 
the city, and the army which followed them. 
20  And they slew every one his man: and the Syrians fled; and Israel 
   
pursued them: and Ben-hadad the king of Syria escaped on a horse 
 
with the horsemen. 
21  And the king of Israel went out, and smote the horses and chariots, 
and slew the Syrians with a great slaughter. 
22  ¶ And the prophet came to the king of Israel, and said unto him, 
Go, strengthen thyself, and mark, and see what thou doest: for at 
 
the return of the year the king of Syria will come up against thee. 
23  ¶ And the servants of the king of Syria said unto him, Their gods 
are gods of the hills; therefore they were stronger than we; but let 
   
us fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger 
than they. 
24  And do this thing, Take the kings away, every man out of his place, 
and put captains in their rooms: 
 
25  and number thee an army, like the army that thou hast lost, horse 
for horse, and chariot for chariot: and we will fight against them in 
 
the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they. And he 
hearkened unto their voice, and did so. 
26  ¶ And it came to pass at the return of the year, that Ben-hadad 
numbered the Syrians, and went up to Aphek, to fight against 
Israel. 
27  And the children of Israel were numbered, and were all present, 
and went against them: and the children of Israel pitched before 
 
them like two little flocks of kids; but the Syrians filled the country. 
 