  2320    Acts 5 
25  Then came one and told them, saying, Behold, the men whom ye 
put in prison are standing in the temple, and teaching the people. 
26  Then went the captain with the officers, and brought them without 
violence: for they feared the people, lest they should have been 
 
stoned. 
27  ¶ And when they had brought them, they set them before the 
council: and the high priest asked them, 
 
28  saying, Did not we straitly command you that ye should not teach 
in this name? and, behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your 
 
doctrine, and intend to bring this man’s blood upon us.  
29  Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to 
obey God rather than men. 
30  The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged 
on a tree. 
31  Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a Prince and a 
Saviour, for to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins. 
32  And we are his witnesses of these things; and so is also the Holy 
 
Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him. 
33  ¶ When they heard that, they were cut to the heart, and took counsel 
to slay them. 
34  Then stood there up one in the council, a Pharisee, named 
Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, had in reputation among all the 
people, and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space; 
 
35  and said unto them, Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what 
ye intend to do as touching these men. 
36  For before these days rose up Theudas, boasting himself to be 
somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined 
 
themselves: who was slain; and all, as many as obeyed him, were 
   
scattered, and brought to nought. 
37  After this man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of the taxing, 
and drew away much people after him: he also perished; and all, 
   
even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed. 
38  And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men, and let them 
alone: for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to 
 
nought: 
 