  737    2 Samuel 18 
10  And a certain man saw it, and told Joab, and said, Behold, I saw 
Absalom hanged in an oak. 
11  And Joab said unto the man that told him, And, behold, thou 
sawest him, and why didst thou not smite him there to the ground? 
 
and I would have given thee ten shekels of silver, and a girdle. 
12  And the man said unto Joab, Though I should receive a thousand 
shekels of silver in mine hand, yet would I not put forth mine hand 
against the king’s son: for in our hearing the king charged thee and 
 
Abishai and Ittai, saying, Beware that none touch the young man 
Absalom. 
13  Otherwise I should have wrought falsehood against mine own life: 
 
for there is no matter hid from the king, and thou thyself wouldest 
have set thyself against me. 
14  Then said Joab, I may not tarry thus with thee. And he took three 
darts in his hand, and thrust them through the heart of Absalom, 
while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak. 
15  And ten young men that bare Joab’s armor compassed about and 
smote Absalom, and slew him. 
16  ¶ And Joab blew the trumpet, and the people returned from 
pursuing after Israel: for Joab held back the people. 
 
17  And they took Absalom, and cast him into a great pit in the wood, 
and laid a very great heap of stones upon him: and all Israel fled 
 
every one to his tent. 
18  Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and reared up for himself a 
pillar, which is in the king’s dale: for he said, I have no son to keep 
 
my name in remembrance: and he called the pillar after his own 
 
name: and it is called unto this day, Absalom’s place. 
 
19  ¶ Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok, Let me now run, and bear 
the king tidings, how that the Lord hath avenged him of his 
enemies. 
20  And Joab said unto him, Thou shalt not bear tidings this day, but 
thou shalt bear tidings another day: but this day thou shalt bear no 
 
tidings, because the king’s son is dead. 
21  Then said Joab to Cushi, Go tell the king what thou hast seen. And 
Cushi bowed himself unto Joab, and ran. 