  1719    Jeremiah 48 
8  And the spoiler shall come upon every city, and no city shall escape: 
 
the valley also shall perish, and the plain shall be destroyed, as the 
Lord hath spoken. 
9  Give wings unto Moab, that it may flee and get away: for the cities 
 
thereof shall be desolate, without any to dwell therein. 
10  ¶ Cursed be he that doeth the work of the Lord deceitfully, and 
cursed be he that keepeth back his sword from blood. 
11  ¶ Moab hath been at ease from his youth, and he hath settled on his 
lees, and hath not been emptied from vessel to vessel, neither hath 
he gone into captivity: therefore his taste remained in him, and his 
 
scent is not changed. 
12  Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will send 
unto him wanderers, that shall cause him to wander, and shall 
empty his vessels, and break their bottles. 
13  And Moab shall be ashamed of Chemosh, as the house of Israel was 
ashamed of Beth-el their confidence. 
14  ¶ How say ye, We are mighty and strong men for the war? 
 
15  Moab is spoiled, and gone up out of her cities, and his chosen young 
men are gone down to the slaughter, saith the King, whose name is 
The Lord of hosts. 
16  The calamity of Moab is near to come, and his affliction hasteth 
fast. 
17  All ye that are about him, bemoan him; and all ye that know his 
 
name, say, How is the strong staff broken, and the beautiful rod! 
 
18  Thou daughter that dost inhabit Dibon, come down from thy glory, 
and sit in thirst; for the spoiler of Moab shall come upon thee, and 
 
he shall destroy thy strongholds. 
19  O inhabitant of Aroer, stand by the way, and espy; ask him that 
 
fleeth, and her that escapeth, and say, What is done? 
 
20  Moab is confounded; for it is broken down: howl and cry; tell ye it 
     
in Arnon, that Moab is spoiled, 
21  and judgment is come upon the plain country; upon Holon, and 
 
upon Jahazah, and upon Mephaath, 
22  and upon Dibon, and upon Nebo, and upon Beth-diblathaim, 
23  and upon Kiriathaim, and upon Beth-gamul, and upon Beth-meon, 