  1890    Daniel 7 
10  A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him: thousand 
 
thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times ten 
thousand stood before him: the judgment was set, and the books 
 
were opened.  
11  I beheld then, because of the voice of the great words which the 
horn spake: I beheld even till the beast was slain, and his body 
 
destroyed, and given to the burning flame. 
12  As concerning the rest of the beasts, they had their dominion taken 
away: yet their lives were prolonged for a season and time. 
 
13  ¶ I saw in the night visions, and, behold, one like the Son of man 
came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient of days, 
and they brought him near before him. 
14  And there was given him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that 
all people, nations, and languages, should serve him: his dominion 
 
is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his 
kingdom that which shall not be destroyed. 
15  ¶ I Daniel was grieved in my spirit in the midst of my body, and the 
visions of my head troubled me. 
16  I came near unto one of them that stood by, and asked him the 
truth of all this. So he told me, and made me know the 
interpretation of the things. 
17  These great beasts, which are four, are four kings, which shall arise 
out of the earth. 
18  But the saints of the Most High shall take the kingdom, and possess 
the kingdom for ever, even for ever and ever.  
19  ¶ Then I would know the truth of the fourth beast, which was 
diverse from all the others, exceeding dreadful, whose teeth were of 
iron, and his nails of brass; which devoured, brake in pieces, and 
 
stamped the residue with his feet; 
 
20  and of the ten horns that were in his head, and of the other which 
came up, and before whom three fell; even of that horn that had 
 
eyes, and a mouth that spake very great things, whose look was 
more stout than his fellows. 
21  I beheld, and the same horn made war with the saints, and 
prevailed against them;  
 