  631    1 Samuel 6 
2  And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, 
What shall we do to the ark of the Lord? tell us wherewith we 
 
shall send it to his place. 
3  And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it 
not empty; but in any wise return him a trespass offering: then ye 
   
shall be healed, and it shall be known to you why his hand is not 
removed from you. 
4  Then said they, What shall be the trespass offering which we shall 
return to him? They answered, Five golden emerods, and five 
 
golden mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines: 
 
for one plague was on you all, and on your lords. 
5  Wherefore ye shall make images of your emerods, and images of 
your mice that mar the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God 
 
of Israel: peradventure he will lighten his hand from off you, and 
 
from off your gods, and from off your land. 
6  Wherefore then do ye harden your hearts, as the Egyptians and 
Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he had wrought wonderfully 
 
among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed? 
 
7  Now therefore make a new cart, and take two milch kine, on which 
there hath come no yoke, and tie the kine to the cart, and bring 
their calves home from them: 
 
8  and take the ark of the Lord, and lay it upon the cart; and put the 
 
jewels of gold, which ye return him for a trespass offering, in a 
coffer by the side thereof; and send it away, that it may go. 
 
9  And see, if it goeth up by the way of his own coast to Beth-shemesh, 
then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, then we shall know 
 
that it is not his hand that smote us; it was a chance that happened to 
 
us. 
10  ¶ And the men did so; and took two milch kine, and tied them to 
 
the cart, and shut up their calves at home: 
 
11  and they laid the ark of the Lord upon the cart, and the coffer with 
the mice of gold and the images of their emerods. 
12  And the kine took the straight way to the way of Beth-shemesh, 
and went along the highway, lowing as they went, and turned not 