  285    Leviticus 23 
24  Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, in 
the first day of the month, shall ye have a sabbath, a memorial of 
blowing of trumpets, a holy convocation. 
25  Ye shall do no servile work therein: but ye shall offer an offering 
 
made by fire unto the Lord. 
26  ¶ And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, 
27  Also on the tenth day of this seventh month there shall be a day of 
atonement: it shall be a holy convocation unto you; and ye shall 
   
afflict your souls, and offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord. 
28  And ye shall do no work in that same day: for it is a day of 
 
atonement, to make an atonement for you before the Lord your 
God. 
29  For whatsoever soul it be that shall not be afflicted in that same day, 
he shall be cut off from among his people. 
30  And whatsoever soul it be that doeth any work in that same day, the 
same soul will I destroy from among his people. 
31  Ye shall do no manner of work: it shall be a statute for ever 
 
throughout your generations in all your dwellings. 
32  It shall be unto you a sabbath of rest, and ye shall afflict your souls: 
 
in the ninth day of the month at even, from even unto even, shall 
ye celebrate your sabbath. 
33  ¶ And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, 
34  Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, The fifteenth day of this 
seventh month shall be the feast of tabernacles for seven days unto 
the Lord. 
35  On the first day shall be a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile 
 
work therein. 
36  Seven days ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord; 
 
on the eighth day shall be a holy convocation unto you, and ye shall 
offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord: it is a solemn 
 
assembly; and ye shall do no servile work therein. 
 
37  ¶ These are the feasts of the Lord, which ye shall proclaim to be 
holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord, 
a burnt offering, and a meat offering, a sacrifice, and drink 
offerings, every thing upon his day: 
 