  730    2 Samuel 15 
24  ¶ And lo Zadok also, and all the Levites were with him, bearing the 
ark of the covenant of God: and they set down the ark of God; and 
   
Abiathar went up, until all the people had done passing out of the 
city. 
25  And the king said unto Zadok, Carry back the ark of God into the 
city: if I shall find favor in the eyes of the Lord, he will bring me 
 
again, and show me both it, and his habitation: 
 
26  but if he thus say, I have no delight in thee; behold, here am I, let 
 
him do to me as seemeth good unto him. 
27  The king said also unto Zadok the priest, Art not thou a seer? return 
 
into the city in peace, and your two sons with you, Ahimaaz thy 
son, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar. 
28  See, I will tarry in the plain of the wilderness, until there come 
word from you to certify me. 
29  Zadok therefore and Abiathar carried the ark of God again to 
Jerusalem: and they tarried there. 
 
30  ¶ And David went up by the ascent of mount Olivet, and wept as he 
went up, and had his head covered, and he went barefoot: and all 
 
the people that was with him covered every man his head, and they 
went up, weeping as they went up. 
31  And one told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators 
with Absalom. And David said, O Lord, I pray thee, turn the 
counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness. 
32  ¶ And it came to pass, that when David was come to the top of the 
mount, where he worshipped God, behold, Hushai the Archite 
came to meet him with his coat rent, and earth upon his head: 
 
33  unto whom David said, If thou passest on with me, then thou shalt 
be a burden unto me: 
 
34  but if thou return to the city, and say unto Absalom, I will be thy 
servant, O king; as I have been thy father’s servant hitherto, so will I 
 
now also be thy servant: then mayest thou for me defeat the counsel 
 
of Ahithophel. 
35  And hast thou not there with thee Zadok and Abiathar the priests? 
 
therefore it shall be, that what thing soever thou shalt hear out of 