  157    Exodus 14 
7  and he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the chariots of 
Egypt, and captains over every one of them. 
8  And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and 
he pursued after the children of Israel: and the children of Israel 
 
went out with a high hand. 
9  But the Egyptians pursued after them, all the horses and chariots of 
Pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his army, and overtook them 
encamping by the sea, beside Pi-hahiroth, before Baal-zephon. 
10  ¶ And when Pharaoh drew nigh, the children of Israel lifted up 
their eyes, and, behold, the Egyptians marched after them; and 
 
they were sore afraid: and the children of Israel cried out unto the 
 
Lord. 
11  And they said unto Moses, Because there were no graves in Egypt, 
hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? wherefore hast 
 
thou dealt thus with us, to carry us forth out of Egypt? 
 
12  Is not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us 
alone, that we may serve the Egyptians? For it had been better for us 
 
to serve the Egyptians, than that we should die in the wilderness. 
13  And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still, and see the 
salvation of the Lord, which he will show to you today: for the 
 
Egyptians whom ye have seen today, ye shall see them again no 
more for ever. 
14  The Lord shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace. 
15  And the Lord said unto Moses, Wherefore criest thou unto me? 
 
speak unto the children of Israel, that they go forward: 
 
16  but lift thou up thy rod, and stretch out thine hand over the sea, 
and divide it: and the children of Israel shall go on dry ground 
 
through the midst of the sea. 
17  And I, behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and they 
shall follow them: and I will get me honor upon Pharaoh, and 
 
upon all his host, upon his chariots, and upon his horsemen. 
18  And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord, when I have 
gotten me honor upon Pharaoh, upon his chariots, and upon his 
horsemen. 