  289    Leviticus 25 
6  And the sabbath of the land shall be meat for you; for thee, and for 
 
thy servant, and for thy maid, and for thy hired servant, and for thy 
stranger that sojourneth with thee, 
7  and for thy cattle, and for the beast that are in thy land, shall all the 
increase thereof be meat.  
8  ¶ And thou shalt number seven sabbaths of years unto thee, seven 
times seven years; and the space of the seven sabbaths of years shall 
 
be unto thee forty and nine years. 
9  Then shalt thou cause the trumpet of the jubilee to sound on the 
tenth day of the seventh month, in the day of atonement shall ye 
make the trumpet sound throughout all your land. 
10  And ye shall hallow the fiftieth year, and proclaim liberty 
throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof: it shall be a 
 
jubilee unto you; and ye shall return every man unto his 
 
possession, and ye shall return every man unto his family. 
11  A jubilee shall that fiftieth year be unto you: ye shall not sow, 
 
neither reap that which groweth of itself in it, nor gather the grapes 
in it of thy vine undressed. 
12  For it is the jubilee; it shall be holy unto you: ye shall eat the 
   
increase thereof out of the field. 
13  ¶ In the year of this jubilee ye shall return every man unto his 
possession. 
14  And if thou sell aught unto thy neighbor, or buyest aught of thy 
neighbor’s hand, ye shall not oppress one another: 
 
15  according to the number of years after the jubilee thou shalt buy of 
thy neighbor, and according unto the number of years of the fruits 
he shall sell unto thee: 
 
16  according to the multitude of years thou shalt increase the price 
thereof, and according to the fewness of years thou shalt diminish 
the price of it: for according to the number of the years of the fruits 
 
doth he sell unto thee. 
17  Ye shall not therefore oppress one another; but thou shalt fear thy 
 
God: for I am the Lord your God. 
 
18  ¶ Wherefore ye shall do my statutes, and keep my judgments, and 
do them; and ye shall dwell in the land in safety. 
 