  484    Deuteronomy 31 
14  ¶ And the Lord said unto Moses, Behold, thy days approach that 
thou must die: call Joshua, and present yourselves in the tabernacle 
 
of the congregation, that I may give him a charge. And Moses and 
Joshua went, and presented themselves in the tabernacle of the 
congregation. 
15  And the Lord appeared in the tabernacle in a pillar of a cloud: and 
 
the pillar of the cloud stood over the door of the tabernacle. 
16  ¶ And the Lord said unto Moses, Behold, thou shalt sleep with thy 
fathers; and this people will rise up, and go a whoring after the gods 
 
of the strangers of the land, whither they go to be among them, and 
will forsake me, and break my covenant which I have made with 
them. 
17  Then my anger shall be kindled against them in that day, and I will 
forsake them, and I will hide my face from them, and they shall be 
devoured, and many evils and troubles shall befall them; so that 
 
they will say in that day, Are not these evils come upon us, because 
our God is not among us? 
 
18  And I will surely hide my face in that day for all the evils which 
they shall have wrought, in that they are turned unto other gods. 
19  Now therefore write ye this song for you, and teach it the children 
of Israel: put it in their mouths, that this song may be a witness for 
 
me against the children of Israel. 
20  For when I shall have brought them into the land which I sware 
unto their fathers, that floweth with milk and honey; and they 
 
shall have eaten and filled themselves, and waxen fat; then will 
 
they turn unto other gods, and serve them, and provoke me, and 
break my covenant. 
21  And it shall come to pass, when many evils and troubles are 
befallen them, that this song shall testify against them as a witness; 
 
for it shall not be forgotten out of the mouths of their seed: for I 
 
know their imagination which they go about, even now, before I 
have brought them into the land which I sware. 
22  Moses therefore wrote this song the same day, and taught it the 
children of Israel. 