  683    1 Samuel 26 
down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go 
 
down with thee. 
7  So David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold, 
 
Saul lay sleeping within the trench, and his spear stuck in the 
ground at his bolster: but Abner and the people lay round about 
 
him. 
8  Then said Abishai to David, God hath delivered thine enemy into 
thine hand this day: now therefore let me smite him, I pray thee, 
 
with the spear even to the earth at once, and I will not smite him 
the second time. 
9  And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch 
 
forth his hand against the Lord’s anointed, and be guiltless? 
 
10  David said furthermore, As the Lord liveth, the Lord shall smite 
him; or his day shall come to die; or he shall descend into battle, 
   
and perish. 
11  The Lord forbid that I should stretch forth mine hand against the 
Lord’s anointed: but, I pray thee, take thou now the spear that is at 
 
his bolster, and the cruse of water, and let us go. 
12  So David took the spear and the cruse of water from Saul’s bolster; 
 
and they gat them away, and no man saw it, nor knew it, neither 
awaked: for they were all asleep; because a deep sleep from the 
   
Lord was fallen upon them. 
13  ¶ Then David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of a 
hill afar off; a great space being between them: 
   
14  and David cried to the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, 
Answerest thou not, Abner? Then Abner answered and said, Who 
 
art thou that criest to the king? 
 
15  And David said to Abner, Art not thou a valiant man? and who is 
 
like to thee in Israel? wherefore then hast thou not kept thy lord 
 
the king? for there came one of the people in to destroy the king 
 
thy lord. 
16  This thing is not good that thou hast done. As the Lord liveth, ye 
are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, the Lord’s 
anointed. And now see where the king’s spear is, and the cruse of 
water that was at his bolster. 