THE YOGA OF THE DIVINE GLORIES
1. Again, O mighty-armed Arjuna, listen to My supreme word which I shall declare to thee
who art beloved, for thy welfare!
COMMENTARY: The all-compassionate Lord in His mercy wants to encourage Arjuna
and cheer him up, and so He Himself comes forward to give him instructions without any request
having been made by Arjuna.
Na me viduh suraganaah prabhavam na maharshayah;
Ahamaadirhi devaanaam maharsheenaam cha sarvashah.
2. Neither the hosts of the gods nor the great sages know My origin; for, in every way I am
the source of all the gods and the great sages.
Yo maamajamanaadim cha vetti lokamaheshwaram;
Asammoodhah sa martyeshu sarvapaapaih pramuchyate.
3. He who knows Me as unborn and beginningless, as the great Lord of the worlds, he,
among mortals, is undeluded; he is liberated from all sins.
COMMENTARY: As the Supreme Being is the cause of all the worlds, He is
beginningless. As He is the source of all the gods and the great sages, so there is no source for His
own existence. As He is beginningless, He is unborn. He is the great Lord of all the worlds.
Buddhir jnaanamasammohah kshamaa satyam damah shamah;
Sukham duhkham bhavo’bhaavo bhayam chaabhayameva cha.
4. Intellect, wisdom, non-delusion, forgiveness, truth, self-restraint, calmness, happiness,
pain, birth or existence, death or non-existence, fear and also fearlessness,
Ahimsaa samataa tushtistapo daanam yasho’yashah;
Bhavanti bhaavaa bhootaanaam matta eva prithagvidhaah.
5. Non-injury, equanimity, contentment, austerity, fame, beneficence, ill-fame—(these)
different kinds of qualities of beings arise from Me alone.
Maharshayah sapta poorve chatwaaro manavastathaa;
Madbhaavaa maanasaa jaataa yeshaam loka imaah prajaah.
6. The seven great sages, the ancient four and also the Manus, possessed of powers like Me
(on account of their minds being fixed on Me), were born of (My) mind; from them are these
creatures born in this world.
Etaam vibhootim yogam cha mama yo vetti tattwatah;
So’vikampena yogena yujyate naatra samshayah.
78