BHAGAVAD GITA
41. Of Brahmanas, Kshatriyas and Vaishyas, as also the Sudras, O Arjuna, the duties are
distributed according to the qualities born of their own nature!
Shamo damastapah shaucham kshaantiraarjavameva cha;
Jnaanam vijnaanam aastikyam brahmakarma swabhaavajam.
42. Serenity, self-restraint, austerity, purity, forgiveness and also uprightness, knowledge,
realisation and belief in God are the duties of the Brahmanas, born of (their own) nature.
Shauryam tejo dhritirdaakshyam yuddhe chaapyapalaayanam;
Daanameeshwarabhaavashcha kshaatram karmaswabhaavajam.
43. Prowess, splendour, firmness, dexterity and also not fleeing from battle, generosity and
lordliness are the duties of Kshatriyas, born of (their own) nature.
Krishigaurakshyavaanijyam vaishyakarma swabhaavajam;
Paricharyaatmakam karma shoodrasyaapi swabhaavajam.
44. Agriculture, cattle-rearing and trade are the duties of the Vaishya (merchant class), born
of (their own) nature; and action consisting of service is the duty of the Sudra (servant class), born
of (their own) nature.
COMMENTARY: When a man does his duties rightly according to his order of life, his
heart gets purified and he goes to heaven.
Swe swe karmanyabhiratah samsiddhim labhate narah;
Swakarmaniratah siddhim yathaa vindati tacchrinu.
45. Each man, devoted to his own duty, attains perfection. How he attains perfection while
being engaged in his own duty, hear now.
Yatah pravrittirbhootaanaam yena sarvamidam tatam;
Swakarmanaa tamabhyarchya siddhim vindati maanavah.
46. He from whom all the beings have evolved and by whom all this is pervaded,
worshipping Him with his own duty, man attains perfection.
COMMENTARY: Man attains perfection by worshipping the Lord through the
performance of his own duty, that is, he becomes qualified for the dawn of Self-knowledge.
Shreyaanswadharmo vigunah paradharmaat swanushthitaat;
Swabhaavaniyatam karma kurvannaapnoti kilbisham.
47. Better is one’s own duty (though) destitute of merits, than the duty of another well
performed. He who does the duty ordained by his own nature incurs no sin.
131