THE YOGA OF THE IMPERISHABLE BRAHMAN
Beyond all things manifest and unmanifest, beyond these names and forms, there is the
Supreme Being—Brahman. He indwells this body as the centre of all things, including even our
own self (individual soul). We are a spiritual being residing in this body and supported by the Silent
Witness within—the Supreme Antaryamin. Prakriti or Nature is the being pertaining to the
elements. Worship, prayer and offering to the gods with faith and devotion constitute actions that
lead to blessedness.
The secret of reaching the Divine Being and thus freeing oneself forever from birth and
death and the pains and sufferings of this earth-life, is to constantly practise unbroken remembrance
of the Lord at all times, in all places and even amidst one’s daily activities. If one practises such
steady remembrance through regular daily Sadhana, then he will be rooted in His remembrance
even at the time of departing from this body at death. Thus departing, he will go beyond darkness
and bondage and attain the realm of eternal blessedness.
One must practise sense-control. The senses must be well disciplined and gradually
withdrawn from outside objects. The mind should be centred within upon God, by uttering Om or
any Divine Name. By such steady practice daily the Lord is easily attained.
Arjuna Uvaacha:
Kim tadbrahma kim adhyaatmam kim karma purushottama;
Adhibhootam cha kim proktam adhidaivam kimuchyate.
Arjuna said:
1. What is that Brahman? What is Adhyatma? What is action, O best among men? What is
declared to be Adhibhuta? And what is Adhidaiva said to be?
Adhiyajnah katham ko’tra dehe’smin madhusoodana;
Prayaanakaale cha katham jneyo’si niyataatmabhih.
2. Who and how is Adhiyajna here in this body, O destroyer of Madhu (Krishna)? And how,
at the time of death, art Thou to be known by the self-controlled one?
COMMENTARY: In the last two verses of the seventh discourse, Lord Krishna uses
certain philosophical terms. Arjuna does not understand their meaning. So he proceeds to question
the Lord.
Sri Bhagavaan Uvaacha:
Aksharam brahma paramam swabhaavo’dhyaatmamuchyate;
Bhootabhaavodbhavakaro visargah karmasamjnitah.
The Blessed Lord said:
66