BHAGAVAD GITA
34. Just as the one sun illumines the whole world, so also the Lord of the Field (the Supreme
Self) illumines the whole Field, O Arjuna!
Kshetrakshetrajnayor evam antaram jnaanachakshushaa;
Bhootaprakritimoksham cha ye vidur yaanti te param.
35. They who, through the eye of knowledge, perceive the distinction between the Field and
its Knower, and also the liberation from the Nature of being, they go to the Supreme.
COMMENTARY: They who know through the eye of intuition opened by meditation and
the instructions of the Guru and the scriptures, that the Field is insentient, the doer, changing and
finite, and that the Knower of the Field is pure Consciousness, the non-doer, unchanging and
infinite, and who also perceive the non-existence of Nature, ignorance, the Unmanifested, the
material cause of being,—they attain the Supreme.
Hari Om Tat Sat
Iti Srimad Bhagavadgeetaasoopanishatsu Brahmavidyaayaam
Yogashaastre Sri Krishnaarjunasamvaade
Kshetrakshetrajnavibhaagayogo Naama Trayodasho’dhyaayah
Thus in the Upanishads of the glorious Bhagavad Gita, the science of the Eternal, the
scripture of Yoga, the dialogue between Sri Krishna and Arjuna, ends the thirteenth discourse
entitled:
“The Yoga of the Distinction Between The Field and the Knower of the Field”
XIV
THE YOGA OF THE DIVISION OF THE THREE GUNAS
Summary of Fourteenth Discourse
Knowledge of the three cosmic qualities or Gunas, namely, Sattwa, Rajas and Tamas is now
given through this discourse. The knowledge of these three Gunas, which hold the entire universe
and all creatures under their sway, is of vital importance to each and everyone for their progress and
happiness in life. Without this knowledge one will be forever bound by sorrow. In this knowledge
we have the secret of success in worldly life as well as in spiritual life. Therefore, one should
acquire this precious knowledge.
Lord Krishna reveals that these three qualities compose the Cosmic Nature. This Cosmic
Nature is the primal source and origin of the entire creation and all things in it. Hence all things
created are subject to their influence and irresistible power. The individual soul also is bound to the
body by these three qualities present in Cosmic Nature. The Supreme Being brings about creation
through the help of His Prakriti (Nature) endowed with these threefold qualities.
105