BHAGAVAD GITA
Aadityaanaamaham vishnur jyotishaam raviramshumaan;
Mareechirmarutaamasmi nakshatraanaamaham shashee.
21. Among the (twelve) Adityas, I am Vishnu; among the luminaries, the radiant sun; I am
Marichi among the (seven or forty-nine) Maruts; among stars the moon am I.
Vedaanaam saamavedo’smi devaanaam asmi vaasavah;
Indriyaanaam manashchaasmi bhootaanaamasmi chetanaa.
22. Among the Vedas I am the Sama Veda; I am Vasava among the gods; among the senses I
am the mind; and I am intelligence among living beings.
Rudraanaam shankarashchaasmi vittesho yaksharakshasaam;
Vasoonaam paavakashchaasmi meruh shikharinaamaham.
23. And, among the Rudras I am Shankara; among the Yakshas and Rakshasas, the Lord of
wealth (Kubera); among the Vasus I am Pavaka (fire); and among the (seven) mountains I am the
Meru.
Purodhasaam cha mukhyam maam viddhipaartha brihaspatim;
Senaaneenaamaham skandah sarasaamasmi saagarah.
24. And, among the household priests (of kings), O Arjuna, know Me to be the chief,
Brihaspati; among the army generals I am Skanda; among lakes I am the ocean!
Maharsheenaam bhriguraham giraamasmyekamaksharam;
Yajnaanaam japayajno’smi sthaavaraanaam himaalayah.
25. Among the great sages I am Bhrigu; among words I am the monosyllable Om; among
sacrifices I am the sacrifice of silent repetition; among immovable things the Himalayas I am.
COMMENTARY: Repetition of the Mantra is regarded as the best of all Yajnas or
sacrifices. There is no loss or injury in this Yajna. Manu says: “Whatever else the Brahmana may or
may not do, he attains salvation by Japa alone”.
Ashwatthah sarvavrikshaanaam devarsheenaam cha naaradah;
Gandharvaanaam chitrarathah siddhaanaam kapilo munih.
26. Among the trees (I am) the peepul; among the divine sages I am Narada; among
Gandharvas I am Chitraratha; among the perfected the sage Kapila.
Ucchaihshravasamashwaanaam viddhi maamamritodbhavam;
Airaavatam gajendraanaam naraanaam cha naraadhipam.
27. Know Me as Ucchaisravas, born of nectar among horses; among lordly elephants (I am)
the Airavata; and among men, the king.
81