SANKHYA YOGA
38. Having made pleasure and pain, gain and loss, victory and defeat the same, engage thou
in battle for the sake of battle; thus thou shalt not incur sin.
COMMENTARY: This is the Yoga of equanimity or the doctrine of poise in action. If a
person performs actions with the above mental attitude, he will not reap the fruits of such actions.
Eshaa te’bhihitaa saankhye buddhir yoge twimaam shrinu;
Buddhyaa yukto yayaa paartha karma bandham prahaasyasi.
39. This which has been taught to thee, is wisdom concerning Sankhya. Now listen to
wisdom concerning Yoga, endowed with which, O Arjuna, thou shalt cast off the bonds of action!
Nehaabhikramanaasho’sti pratyavaayo na vidyate;
Swalpam apyasya dharmasya traayate mahato bhayaat.
40. In this there is no loss of effort, nor is there any harm (the production of contrary results
or transgression). Even a little of this knowledge (even a little practice of this Yoga) protects one
from great fear.
COMMENTARY: In Karma Yoga (selfless action) even a little effort brings immediate
purification of the heart. Purification of the heart leads to fearlessness.
Vyavasaayaatmikaa buddhir ekeha kurunandana;
Bahushaakhaa hyanantaashcha buddhayo’vyavasaayinaam.
41. Here, O joy of the Kurus, there is a single one-pointed determination! Many-branched
and endless are the thoughts of the irresolute.
Yaam imaam pushpitaam vaacham pravadantyavipashchitah;
Vedavaadarataah paartha naanyad asteeti vaadinah.
42. Flowery speech is uttered by the unwise, who take pleasure in the eulogising words of
the Vedas, O Arjuna, saying: “There is nothing else!”
COMMENTARY: Unwise people who lack discrimination place great stress upon the
Karma Kanda or ritualistic portion of the Vedas which lays down specific rules for specific actions
for the attainment of specific fruit. They extol these actions and rewards unduly.
Kaamaatmaanah swargaparaa janmakarmaphalapradaam;
Kriyaavisheshabahulaam bhogaishwaryagatim prati.
43. Full of desires, having heaven as their goal, they utter speech which promises birth as the
reward of one’s actions, and prescribe various specific actions for the attainment of pleasure and
power.
Bhogaishwarya prasaktaanaam tayaapahritachetasaam;
24