THE YOGA OF RENUNCIATION OF ACTION
20. Resting in Brahman, with steady intellect, undeluded, the knower of Brahman neither
rejoiceth on obtaining what is pleasant nor grieveth on obtaining what is unpleasant.
Baahyasparsheshwasaktaatmaa vindatyaatmani yat sukham;
Sa brahma yoga yuktaatmaa sukham akshayam ashnute.
21. With the self unattached to the external contacts he discovers happiness in the Self; with
the self engaged in the meditation of Brahman he attains to the endless happiness.
Ye hi samsparshajaa bhogaa duhkhayonaya eva te;
Aadyantavantah kaunteya na teshu ramate budhah.
22. The enjoyments that are born of contacts are generators of pain only, for they have a
beginning and an end, O Arjuna! The wise do not rejoice in them.
Shaknoteehaiva yah sodhum praak shareera vimokshanaat;
Kaamakrodhodbhavam vegam sa yuktah sa sukhee narah.
23. He who is able, while still here in this world to withstand, before the liberation from the
body, the impulse born of desire and anger—he is a Yogi, he is a happy man.
Yo’ntah sukho’ntaraaraamas tathaantarjyotir eva yah;
Sa yogee brahma nirvaanam brahmabhooto’dhigacchati.
24. He who is ever happy within, who rejoices within, who is illumined within, such a Yogi
attains absolute freedom or Moksha, himself becoming Brahman.
Labhante brahma nirvaanam rishayah ksheenakalmashaah;
Cchinnadwaidhaa yataatmaanah sarvabhootahite rataah.
25. The sages obtain absolute freedom or Moksha—they whose sins have been destroyed,
whose dualities (perception of dualities or experience of the pairs of opposites) are torn asunder,
who are self-controlled, and intent on the welfare of all beings.
Kaamakrodhaviyuktaanaam yateenaam yatachetasaam;
Abhito brahma nirvaanam vartate viditaatmanaam.
26. Absolute freedom (or Brahmic bliss) exists on all sides for those self-controlled ascetics
who are free from desire and anger, who have controlled their thoughts and who have realised the
Self.
Sparsaan kritwaa bahir baahyaamschakshus chaivaantare bhruvoh;
Praanaapaanau samau kritwaa naasaabhyantara chaarinau.
27. Shutting out (all) external contacts and fixing the gaze between the eyebrows, equalising
the outgoing and incoming breaths moving within the nostrils,
50