BHAGAVAD GITA
Yatendriya manobuddhir munir mokshaparaayanah;
Vigatecchaabhaya krodho yah sadaa mukta eva sah.
28. With the senses, the mind and the intellect always controlled, having liberation as his
supreme goal, free from desire, fear and anger—the sage is verily liberated for ever.
Bhoktaaram yajnatapasaam sarvaloka maheshwaram;
Suhridam sarvabhootaanaam jnaatwaa maam shaantim ricchati.
29. He who knows Me as the enjoyer of sacrifices and austerities, the great Lord of all the
worlds and the friend of all beings, attains to peace.
Hari Om Tat Sat
Iti Srimad Bhagavadgeetaasoopanishatsu Brahmavidyaayaam
Yogashaastre Sri Krishnaarjunasamvaade
Karmasanyaasayogo Naama Panchamo’dhyaayah
Thus in the Upanishads of the glorious Bhagavad Gita, the science of the Eternal, the
scripture of Yoga, the dialogue between Sri Krishna and Arjuna ends the fifth discourse entitled:
“The Yoga of Renunciation of Action”
VI
THE YOGA OF MEDITATION
Summary of Sixth Discourse
Sri Krishna emphasises once again that the Yogi or Sannyasin is one who has renounced the
fruits of actions, not the actions themselves. The performance of actions without an eye on their
fruits brings about the purification of the mind. Only a purified mind, a mind free from desires, can
engage itself in constant meditation on the Atman. Desire gives rise to imagination or Sankalpa,
which drives the soul into the field of action. Therefore, none can realise permanent freedom and
tranquillity of mind without renouncing desires.
The lower self must be controlled by the higher Self. All the lower impulses of the body,
mind and senses must be controlled by the power of the higher Self. Then the higher Self becomes
one’s friend. He who has perfect control of the body, mind and senses and is united with God, sees
God in all objects and beings. He sees inwardly that there is no difference between gold and stone,
between friends and enemies, between the righteous and the unrighteous. He is perfectly
harmonised.
Sri Krishna proceeds to give various practical hints as to the practice of meditation. The
aspirant should select a secluded spot where there is no likelihood of disturbance. He should
arrange his meditation seat properly and sit in a comfortable posture, with the head, neck and spine
51