THE YOGA OF THE DIVISION OF THE THREE GUNAS
24. Alike in pleasure and pain, who dwells in the Self, to whom a clod of earth, stone and
gold are alike, to whom the dear and the unfriendly are alike, firm, the same in censure and praise,
Maanaapamaanayostulyas tulyo mitraaripakshayoh;
Sarvaarambhaparityaagee gunaateetah sa uchyate.
25. The same in honour and dishonour, the same to friend and foe, abandoning all
undertakings—he is said to have crossed the qualities.
Maam cha yo’vyabhichaarena bhaktiyogena sevate;
Sa gunaan samateetyaitaan brahmabhooyaaya kalpate.
26. And he who serves Me with unswerving devotion, he, crossing beyond the qualities, is
fit for becoming Brahman.
Brahmano hi pratishthaa’ham amritasyaavyayasya cha;
Shaashwatasya cha dharmasya sukhasyaikaantikasya cha.
27. For I am the abode of Brahman, the immortal and the immutable, of everlasting Dharma
and of absolute bliss.
Hari Om Tat Sat
Iti Srimad Bhagavadgeetaasoopanishatsu Brahmavidyaayaam
Yogashaastre Sri Krishnaarjunasamvaade
Gunatrayavibhaagayogo Naama Chaturdasho’dhyaayah
Thus in the Upanishads of the glorious Bhagavad Gita, the science of the Eternal, the
scripture of Yoga, the dialogue between Sri Krishna and Arjuna, ends the fourteenth discourse
entitled:
“The Yoga of the Division Of the Three Gunas”
XV
THE YOGA OF THE SUPREME SPIRIT
Summary of Fifteenth Discourse
This discourse is entitled “Purushottama Yoga” or the “Yoga of the Supreme Person”. Here
Lord Krishna tells us about the ultimate source of this visible phenomenal universe from which all
things have come into being, just like a great tree with all its roots, trunk, branches, twigs, leaves,
flowers and fruits which spring forth from the earth, which itself supports the tree and in which it is
rooted. Sri Krishna declares that the Supreme Being is the source of all existence, and refers
allegorically to this universe as being like an inverted tree whose roots are in Para Brahman, and
whose spreading branches and foliage constitute all the things and factors that go to make up this
110