BHAGAVAD GITA
COMMENTARY: The whole being of a man should be surrendered to the Lord without
reservation. Then there will be a marvellous transformation. He will have the vision of God
everywhere. All sorrows and pains will vanish. His mind will be one with Him. He will for ever
have his life and being in the Lord alone.
Hari Om Tat Sat
Iti Srimad Bhagavadgeetaasoopanishatsu Brahmavidyaayaam
Yogashaastre Sri Krishnaarjunasamvaade
Raajavidyaa-raajaguhyayogo Naama Navamo’dhyaayah
Thus in the Upanishads of the glorious Bhagavad Gita, the science of the Eternal, the
scripture of Yoga, the dialogue between Sri Krishna and Arjuna, ends the ninth discourse entitled:
“The Yoga of the Kingly Science & the Kingly Secret”
X
THE YOGA OF THE DIVINE GLORIES
Summary of Tenth Discourse
Krishna tells Arjuna that even the Devas and highly evolved souls fail to understand how He
projects Himself as the universe and all its manifestations. He goes on to describe the various
qualities that beings manifest according to their Karmas. All these qualities—wisdom, truth,
contentment, etc.—originate from Him.
The true devotees of the Lord are wholly absorbed in Him. They have completely
surrendered to Him and through single-minded devotion they are granted the power of
discrimination, the discrimination that leads them from the unreal to the Real. Krishna emphatically
declares that ignorance is destroyed and knowledge gained through Divine Grace alone.
Arjuna accepts the descent of the Supreme in a human form, but wishes to know from the
Lord Himself His Cosmic powers by means of which He controls the diverse forces of the universe.
The Lord describes His Divine glories, bringing within the range of Arjuna’s comprehension His
limitless manifestations, and how He upholds everything. In short, the Lord is the Almighty Power
that creates, sustains and destroys everything.
Sri Bhagavaan Uvaacha:
Bhooya eva mahaabaaho shrinu me paramam vachah;
Yatte’ham preeyamaanaaya vakshyaami hitakaamyayaa.
The Blessed Lord said:
77