BHAGAVAD GITA
15. Having attained Me these great souls do not again take birth (here), which is the place of
pain and is non-eternal; they have reached the highest perfection (liberation).
Aabrahmabhuvanaallokaah punaraavartino’rjuna;
Maamupetya tu kaunteya punarjanma na vidyate.
16. (All) the worlds, including the world of Brahma, are subject to return again, O Arjuna!
But he who reaches Me, O son of Kunti, has no rebirth!
Sahasrayugaparyantam aharyad brahmano viduh;
Raatrim yugasahasraantaam te’horaatravido janaah.
17. Those who know the day of Brahma, which is of a duration of a thousand Yugas (ages),
and the night, which is also of a thousand Yugas’ duration, they know day and night.
Avyaktaadvyaktayah sarvaah prabhavantyaharaagame;
Raatryaagame praleeyante tatraivaavyaktasamjnake.
18. From the unmanifested all the manifested (worlds) proceed at the coming of the “day”;
at the coming of the “night” they dissolve verily into that alone which is called the unmanifested.
COMMENTARY: Coming of the “day’ is the commencement of creation. Coming of the
“night” is the commencement of dissolution.
Bhootagraamah sa evaayam bhootwaa bhootwaa praleeyate;
Raatryaagame’vashah paartha prabhavatyaharaagame.
19. This same multitude of beings, born again and again, is dissolved, helplessly, O Arjuna,
(into the unmanifested) at the coming of the night, and comes forth at the coming of the day!
Parastasmaat tu bhaavo’nyo’vyakto’vyaktaatsanaatanah;
Yah sa sarveshu bhooteshu nashyatsu na vinashyati.
20. But verily there exists, higher than the unmanifested, another unmanifested Eternal who
is not destroyed when all beings are destroyed.
COMMENTARY: Another unmanifested Eternal refers to Para Brahman, which is
distinct from the unmanifested (primordial Nature), and which is of quite a different nature. It is
superior to Hiranyagarbha (the creative Intelligence) and the unmanifested Nature because It is
their cause. It is not destroyed when all beings from Brahma down to a blade of grass are destroyed.
Avyakto’kshara ityuktastamaahuh paramaam gatim;
Yam praapya na nivartante taddhaama paramam mama.
69