BHAGAVAD GITA
Sarvayonishu kaunteya moortayah sambhavanti yaah;
Taasaam brahma mahadyonir aham beejapradah pitaa.
4. Whatever forms are produced, O Arjuna, in any womb whatsoever, the great Brahma is
their womb and I am the seed-giving father.
Sattwam rajastama iti gunaah prakriti sambhavaah;
Nibadhnanti mahaabaaho dehe dehinam avyayam.
5. Purity, passion and inertia—these qualities, O mighty-armed Arjuna, born of Nature,
bind fast in the body, the embodied, the indestructible!
COMMENTARY: The three Gunas are present in all human beings. None is free from the
operation of any one of the three qualities. They are not constant. Sometimes Sattwa predominates
and at other times Rajas or Tamas predominates. One should analyse and stand as a witness of these
three qualities.
Tatra sattwam nirmalatwaat prakaashakam anaamayam;
Sukhasangena badhnaati jnaanasangena chaanagha.
6. Of these, Sattwa, which from its stainlessness is luminous and healthy, binds by
attachment to knowledge and to happiness, O sinless one!
Rajo raagaatmakam viddhi trishnaasangasamudbhavam;
Tannibadhnaati kaunteya karmasangena dehinam.
7. Know thou Rajas to be of the nature of passion, the source of thirst (for sensual
enjoyment) and attachment; it binds fast, O Arjuna, the embodied one by attachment to action!
Tamastwajnaanajam viddhi mohanam sarvadehinaam;
Pramaadaalasyanidraabhis tannibadhnaati bhaarata.
8. But know thou Tamas to be born of ignorance, deluding all embodied beings; it binds fast,
O Arjuna, by heedlessness, sleep and indolence!
Sattwam sukhe sanjayati rajah karmani bhaarata;
Jnaanamaavritya tu tamah pramaade sanjayatyuta.
9. Sattwa attaches to happiness, Rajas to action, O Arjuna, while Tamas, shrouding
knowledge, attaches to heedlessness only!
Rajastamashchaabhibhooya sattwam bhavati bhaarata;
Rajah sattwam tamashchaiva tamah sattwam rajastathaa.
10. Now Sattwa prevails, O Arjuna, having overpowered Rajas and Tamas; now Rajas,
having overpowered Sattwa and Tamas; and now Tamas, having overpowered Sattwa and Rajas!
107