THE YOGA OF WISDOM
Apaane juhwati praanam praane’paanam tathaa’pare;
Praanaapaana gatee ruddhwaa praanaayaamaparaayanaah.
29. Others offer as sacrifice the outgoing breath in the incoming, and the incoming in the
outgoing, restraining the courses of the outgoing and the incoming breaths, solely absorbed in the
restraint of the breath.
COMMENTARY: Some Yogis practise inhalation, some practise exhalation, and some
retention of breath. This is Pranayama.
Apare niyataahaaraah praanaan praaneshu juhwati;
Sarve’pyete yajnavido yajnakshapita kalmashaah.
30. Others who regulate their diet offer life-breaths in life-breaths; all these are knowers of
sacrifice, whose sins are all destroyed by sacrifice.
Yajnashishtaamritabhujo yaanti brahma sanaatanam;
Naayam loko’styayajnasya kuto’nyah kurusattama.
31. Those who eat the remnants of the sacrifice, which are like nectar, go to the eternal
Brahman. This world is not for the man who does not perform sacrifice; how then can he have the
other, O Arjuna?
COMMENTARY: They go to the eternal Brahman after attaining knowledge of the Self
through purification of the mind by performing the above sacrifices. He who does not perform any
of these is not fit even for this miserable world. How then can he hope to get a better world than this?
Evam bahuvidhaa yajnaa vitataa brahmano mukhe;
Karmajaan viddhi taan sarvaan evam jnaatwaa vimokshyase.
32. Thus, various kinds of sacrifices are spread out before Brahman (literally at the mouth or
face of Brahman). Know them all as born of action, and knowing thus, thou shalt be liberated.
Shreyaan dravyamayaadyajnaaj jnaanayajnah parantapa;
Sarvam karmaakhilam paartha jnaane parisamaapyate.
33. Superior is wisdom-sacrifice to sacrifice with objects, O Parantapa! All actions in their
entirety, O Arjuna, culminate in knowledge!
Tadviddhi pranipaatena pariprashnena sevayaa;
Upadekshyanti te jnaanam jnaaninas tattwadarshinah.
34. Know that by long prostration, by question and by service, the wise who have realised
the Truth will instruct thee in (that) knowledge.
Yajjnaatwaa na punarmoham evam yaasyasi paandava;
44