BHAGAVAD GITA
Yadricchaalaabhasantushto dwandwaateeto vimatsarah;
Samah siddhaavasiddhau cha kritwaapi na nibadhyate.
22. Content with what comes to him without effort, free from the pairs of opposites and
envy, even-minded in success and failure, though acting, he is not bound.
Gatasangasya muktasya jnaanaavasthitachetasah;
Yajnaayaacharatah karma samagram pravileeyate.
23. To one who is devoid of attachment, who is liberated, whose mind is established in
knowledge, who works for the sake of sacrifice (for the sake of God), the whole action is dissolved.
Brahmaarpanam brahmahavirbrahmaagnau brahmanaa hutam;
Brahmaiva tena gantavyam brahmakarmasamaadhinaa.
24. Brahman is the oblation; Brahman is the melted butter (ghee); by Brahman is the
oblation poured into the fire of Brahman; Brahman verily shall be reached by him who always sees
Brahman in action.
COMMENTARY: This is wisdom-sacrifice, wherein the idea of Brahman is substituted
for the ideas of the instrument and other accessories of action, the idea of action itself and its results.
By having such an idea the whole action melts away.
Daivam evaapare yajnam yoginah paryupaasate;
Brahmaagnaavapare yajnam yajnenaivopajuhwati.
25. Some Yogis perform sacrifice to the gods alone, while others (who have realised the
Self) offer the Self as sacrifice by the Self in the fire of Brahman alone.
Shrotraadeeneendriyaanyanye samyamaagnishu juhwati;
Shabdaadeen vishayaananya indriyaagnishu juhwati.
26. Some again offer hearing and other senses as sacrifice in the fire of restraint; others offer
sound and various objects of the senses as sacrifice in the fire of the senses.
Sarvaaneendriya karmaani praanakarmaani chaapare;
Aatmasamyamayogaagnau juhwati jnaanadeepite.
27. Others again sacrifice all the functions of the senses and those of the breath (vital energy
or Prana) in the fire of the Yoga of self-restraint kindled by knowledge.
Dravyayajnaas tapoyajnaa yogayajnaastathaapare;
Swaadhyaayajnaana yajnaashcha yatayah samshitavrataah.
28. Some again offer wealth, austerity and Yoga as sacrifice, while the ascetics of
self-restraint and rigid vows offer study of scriptures and knowledge as sacrifice.
43