BHAGAVAD GITA
Atyeti tatsarvam idam viditwaa
Yogee param sthaanamupaiti chaadyam.
28. Whatever fruits or merits is declared (in the scriptures) to accrue from (the study of) the
Vedas, (the performance of) sacrifices, (the practice of) austerities, and (the offering of)
gifts—beyond all these goes the Yogi, having known this; and he attains to the supreme primeval
(first or ancient) Abode.
Hari Om Tat Sat
Iti Srimad Bhagavadgeetaasoopanishatsu Brahmavidyaayaam
Yogashaastre Sri Krishnaarjunasamvaade
Aksharabrahmayogo Naama Ashtamo’dhyaayah
Thus in the Upanishads of the glorious Bhagavad Gita, the science of the Eternal, the
scripture of Yoga, the dialogue between Sri Krishna and Arjuna, ends the eighth discourse entitled:
“The Yoga Of the Imperishable Brahman”
IX
THE YOGA OF THE KINGLY SCIENCE & THE KINGLY
SECRET
Summary of Ninth Discourse
Observing that Arjuna was a qualified aspirant and endowed with faith, Krishna declares to
him the sovereign knowledge and sovereign secret that is to be known by direct experience. He adds
that without faith in this knowledge man fails to reach God and is reborn to suffer.
Now the Lord proceeds to describe His nature as the eternal, all-comprehensive Truth. He is
everything that is invisible and visible. He pervades everything that exists. He creates everything,
sustains everything, and when final dissolution takes place, absorbs everything into Himself. He
manifests them again when the next creation begins. All beings who are ignorant of this knowledge
are caught helplessly in the cycle of birth and death. In the midst of this creation, preservation and
dissolution of the universe, the Lord stands as a silent witness, unaffected and unattached. He is the
sole director, sustainer and supervisor of His Cosmic Prakriti.
Ignorant beings are not able to recognise the Lord in one who has realised Him. Although
these cruel beings assume a human form, their nature is that of demons. The God-realised
Mahatma, on the other hand, is a man of knowledge, and perceives Him indwelling all beings and
creatures. He beholds the underlying unity of existence in all names and forms.
The Lord’s divine protection is assured to all those who take refuge in Him. Whatever path a
devotee follows, he ultimately reaches Him. He is the goal of the various methods of spiritual
practice. Devotion, Sri Krishna emphasises, is the essence of all spiritual discipline. If this supreme
71