THE YOGA OF MEDITATION
9. He who is of the same mind to the good-hearted, friends, enemies, the indifferent, the
neutral, the hateful, the relatives, the righteous and the unrighteous, excels.
Yogee yunjeeta satatamaatmaanam rahasi sthitah;
Ekaakee yatachittaatmaa niraasheeraparigrahah.
10. Let the Yogi try constantly to keep the mind steady, remaining in solitude, alone, with
the mind and the body controlled, and free from hope and greed.
Shuchau deshe pratishthaapya sthiramaasanamaatmanah;
Naatyucchritam naatineecham chailaajinakushottaram.
11. In a clean spot, having established a firm seat of his own, neither too high nor too low,
made of a cloth, a skin and kusha grass, one over the other,
Tatraikaagram manah kritwaa yatachittendriyakriyah;
Upavishyaasane yunjyaadyogamaatmavishuddhaye.
12. There, having made the mind one-pointed, with the actions of the mind and the senses
controlled, let him, seated on the seat, practise Yoga for the purification of the self.
Samam kaayashirogreevam dhaarayannachalam sthirah;
Samprekshya naasikaagram swam dishashchaanavalokayan.
13. Let him firmly hold his body, head and neck erect and perfectly still, gazing at the tip of
his nose, without looking around.
Prashaantaatmaa vigatabheer brahmachaarivrate sthitah;
Manah samyamya macchitto yukta aaseeta matparah.
14. Serene-minded, fearless, firm in the vow of a Brahmachari, having controlled the mind,
thinking of Me and balanced in mind, let him sit, having Me as his supreme goal.
Yunjannevam sadaa’tmaanam yogee niyatamaanasah;
Shaantim nirvaanaparamaam matsamsthaamadhigacchati.
15. Thus, always keeping the mind balanced, the Yogi, with the mind controlled, attains to
the peace abiding in Me, which culminates in liberation.
Naatyashnatastu yogo’sti nachaikaantamanashnatah;
Na chaatiswapnasheelasya jaagrato naiva chaarjuna.
16. Verily Yoga is not possible for him who eats too much, nor for him who does not eat at
all; nor for him who sleeps too much, nor for him who is (always) awake, O Arjuna!
Yuktaahaaravihaarasya yuktacheshtasya karmasu;
54