THE YOGA OF LIBERATION BY RENUNCIATION
Yajno daanam tapashchaiva paavanaani maneeshinaam.
5. Acts of sacrifice, gift and austerity should not be abandoned, but should be performed;
sacrifice, gift and also austerity are the purifiers of the wise.
Etaanyapi tu karmaani sangam tyaktwaa phalaani cha;
Kartavyaaneeti me paartha nishchitam matamuttamam.
6. But even these actions should be performed leaving aside attachment and the desire for
rewards, O Arjuna! This is My certain and best conviction.
COMMENTARY: This is a summary of the doctrine of Karma Yoga already enunciated
before. The defect in Karma is not in the action itself but in attachment and expectation of a reward.
Niyatasya tu sannyaasah karmano nopapadyate;
Mohaattasya parityaagas taamasah parikeertitah.
7. Verily, the renunciation of obligatory action is improper; the abandonment of the same
from delusion is declared to be Tamasic.
Duhkhamityeva yat karma kaayakleshabhayaat tyajet;
Sa kritwaa raajasam tyaagam naiva tyaagaphalam labhet.
8. He who abandons action on account of the fear of bodily trouble (because it is painful), he
does not obtain the merit of renunciation by doing such Rajasic renunciation.
Kaaryamityeva yatkarma niyatam kriyate’rjuna;
Sangam tyaktwaa phalam chaiva sa tyaagah saattwiko matah.
9. Whatever obligatory action is done, O Arjuna, merely because it ought to be done,
abandoning attachment and also the desire for reward, that renunciation is regarded as Sattwic!
Na dweshtyakushalam karma kushale naanushajjate;
Tyaagee sattwasamaavishto medhaavee cchinnasamshayah.
10. The man of renunciation, pervaded by purity, intelligent and with his doubts cut
asunder, does not hate a disagreeable work nor is he attached to an agreeable one.
Na hi dehabhritaa shakyam tyaktum karmaanyasheshatah;
Yastu karmaphalatyaagi sa tyaageetyabhidheeyate.
11. Verily, it is not possible for an embodied being to abandon actions entirely; but he who
relinquishes the rewards of actions is verily called a man of renunciation.
COMMENTARY: Nature, and your own nature, too, will urge you to do actions. You will
have to abandon the idea of agency and the fruits of actions. Then no action will bind you.
126