THE YOGA OF THE SUPREME SPIRIT
3. Its form is not perceived here as such, neither its end nor its origin, nor its foundation nor
resting place; having cut asunder this firmly-rooted peepul tree with the strong axe of
non-attachment,
Tatah padam tat parimaargitavyam
Yasmin gataa na nivartanti bhooyah;
Tameva chaadyam purusham prapadye
Yatah pravrittih prasritaa puraanee.
4. Then that goal should be sought after, whither having gone none returns again. Seek
refuge in that Primeval Purusha whence streamed forth the ancient activity or energy.
COMMENTARY: That which fills the whole world with the form of Satchidananda, is
Purusha. That which sleeps in this city of the body is the Purusha. Single-minded devotion, which
consists of ceaselessly remembering the Supreme Being, is the surest and most potent means of
attaining Self-realisation.
Nirmaanamohaa jitasangadoshaa
Adhyaatmanityaa vinivrittakaamaah;
Dwandwairvimuktaah sukhaduhkhasamjnair
Gacchantyamoodhaah padamavyayam tat.
5. Free from pride and delusion, victorious over the evil of attachment, dwelling constantly
in the Self, their desires having completely turned away, freed from the pairs of opposites known as
pleasure and pain, the undeluded reach the eternal goal.
Na tadbhaasayate sooryo na shashaangko na paavakah;
Yadgatwaa na nivartante taddhaama paramam mama.
6. Neither doth the sun illumine there, nor the moon, nor the fire; having gone thither they
return not; that is My supreme abode.
Mamaivaamsho jeevaloke jeevabhootah sanaatanah;
Manah shashthaaneendriyaani prakritisthaani karshati.
7. An eternal portion of Myself having become a living soul in the world of life, draws to
(itself) the (five) senses with the mind for the sixth, abiding in Nature.
Shareeram yadavaapnoti yacchaapyutkraamateeshwarah;
Griheetwaitaani samyaati vaayurgandhaanivaashayaat.
8. When the Lord obtains a body and when He leaves it, He takes these and goes (with them)
as the wind takes the scents from their seats (flowers, etc.).
Shrotram chakshuh sparshanam cha rasanam ghraanameva cha;
Adhishthaaya manashchaayam vishayaanupasevate.
112