THE YOGA OF THE DIVISION BETWEEN THE DIVINE AND THE DEMONIACAL
16. Bewildered by many a fancy, entangled in the snare of delusion, addicted to the
gratification of lust, they fall into a foul hell.
Aatmasambhaavitaah stabdhaa dhanamaanamadaanvitaah;
Yajante naamayajnaiste dambhenaavidhipoorvakam.
17. Self-conceited, stubborn, filled with the intoxication and pride of wealth, they perform
sacrifices in name, through ostentation, contrary to scriptural ordinances.
Ahankaaram balam darpam kaamam krodham cha samshritaah;
Maamaatmaparadeheshu pradwishanto’bhyasooyakaah.
18. Given over to egoism, power, haughtiness, lust and anger, these malicious people hate
Me in their own bodies and those of others.
Taanaham dwishatah krooraan samsaareshu naraadhamaan;
Kshipaamyajasram ashubhaan aasureeshweva yonishu.
19. These cruel haters, the worst among men in the world,—I hurl all these evil-doers for
ever into the wombs of demons only.
Aasureem yonimaapannaa moodhaa janmani janmani;
Maamapraapyaiva kaunteya tato yaantyadhamaam gatim.
20. Entering into demoniacal wombs and deluded birth after birth, not attaining Me, they
thus fall, O Arjuna, into a condition still lower than that!
Trividham narakasyedam dwaaram naashanamaatmanah;
Kaamah krodhastathaa lobhas tasmaadetat trayam tyajet.
21. Triple is the gate of this hell, destructive of the self—lust, anger, and greed,—therefore,
one should abandon these three.
Etairvimuktah kaunteya tamodwaaraistribhirnarah;
Aacharatyaatmanah shreyas tato yaati paraam gatim.
22. A man who is liberated from these three gates to darkness, O Arjuna, practises what is
good for him and thus goes to the Supreme goal!
COMMENTARY: When these three gates to hell are abandoned, the path to salvation is
cleared for the aspirant. He gets the company of sages, which leads to liberation. He receives
spiritual instructions and practises them. He hears the scriptures, reflects, meditates and attains
Self-realisation.
Yah shaastravidhimutsrijya vartate kaamakaaratah;
Na sa siddhimavaapnoti na sukham na paraam gatim.
118