BHAGAVAD GITA
greed. The true and proper renunciation is giving up of selfishness and attachment while
performing one’s legitimate duties. This is called Sattwic Tyaga. We neither hate unpleasant action
nor are we attached to pleasurable action. As it is not possible for you to renounce all action, the
renunciation of egoism, selfishness and attachment in your activity is declared as true renunciation.
Karma does not accumulate and bind one who is thus established in such inner renunciation.
The divine injunction is that God must be made the sole object of one’s life. This is the heart
of the Gita gospel. This is the central message in its teaching. This is the one way to your welfare
here.
Now Sanjaya concludes his narrative by declaring that where there is such obedience as that
of Arjuna, and such willing readiness to carry out the divine teachings, there surely prosperity,
victory, glory and all blessedness will prevail.
Arjuna Uvaacha:
Sannyaasasya mahaabaaho tattwamicchaami veditum;
Tyaagasya cha hrisheekesha prithak keshinishoodana.
Arjuna said:
1. I desire to know severally, O mighty-armed, the essence or truth of renunciation, O
Hrishikesa, as also of abandonment, O slayer of Kesi!
Sri Bhagavaan Uvaacha:
Kaamyaanaam karmanaam nyaasam sannyaasam kavayoviduh;
Sarvakarmaphalatyaagam praahustyaagam vichakshanaah.
The Blessed Lord said:
2. The sages understand Sannyas to be the renunciation of action with desire; the wise
declare the abandonment of the fruits of all actions as Tyaga.
Tyaajyam doshavadityeke karma praahurmaneeshinah;
Yajnadaanatapah karma na tyaajyamiti chaapare.
3. Some philosophers declare that all actions should be abandoned as an evil, while others
declare that acts of gift, sacrifice and austerity should not be relinquished.
Nishchayam shrinu me tatra tyaage bharatasattama;
Tyaago hi purushavyaaghra trividhah samprakeertitah.
4. Hear from Me the conclusion or the final truth about this abandonment, O best of the
Bharatas; abandonment, verily, O best of men, has been declared to be of three kinds!
Yajnadaanatapah karma na tyaajyam kaaryameva tat;
125