SANKHYA YOGA
14. The contacts of the senses with the objects, O son of Kunti, which cause heat and cold
and pleasure and pain, have a beginning and an end; they are impermanent; endure them bravely, O
Arjuna!
Yam hi na vyathayantyete purusham purusharshabha;
Samaduhkha sukham dheeram so’mritatwaaya kalpate.
15. That firm man whom surely these afflict not, O chief among men, to whom pleasure and
pain are the same, is fit for attaining immortality!
Naasato vidyate bhaavo naabhaavo vidyate satah;
Ubhayorapi drishto’ntastwanayos tattwadarshibhih.
16. The unreal hath no being; there is no non-being of the Real; the truth about both has been
seen by the knowers of the Truth (or the seers of the Essence).
COMMENTARY: What is changing must always be unreal. What is constant or
permanent must always be real. The Atman or the eternal, all-pervading Self ever exists. It is the
only Reality. This phenomenal world of names and forms is ever changing. Names and forms are
subject to decay and death. Hence they are unreal or impermanent.
Avinaashi tu tad viddhi yena sarvam idam tatam;
Vinaasham avyayasyaasya na kashchit kartum arhati.
17. Know That to be indestructible, by whom all this is pervaded. None can cause the
destruction of That, the Imperishable.
COMMENTARY: The Self pervades all objects like ether. Even if the pot is broken, the
ether that is within and without it cannot be destroyed. Similarly, if the bodies and all other objects
perish, the eternal Self that pervades them cannot be destroyed; It is the living Truth.
Antavanta ime dehaa nityasyoktaah shareerinah;
Anaashino’prameyasya tasmaad yudhyaswa bhaarata.
18. These bodies of the embodied Self, which is eternal, indestructible and immeasurable,
are said to have an end. Therefore, fight, O Arjuna!
Ya enam vetti hantaaram yashchainam manyate hatam;
Ubhau tau na vijaaneeto naayam hanti na hanyate.
19. He who takes the Self to be the slayer and he who thinks He is slain, neither of them
knows; He slays not nor is He slain.
Na jaayate mriyate vaa kadaachin
Naayam bhootwaa bhavitaa vaa na bhooyah;
Ajo nityah shaashwato’yam puraano
20