THE YOGA OF RENUNCIATION OF ACTION
Sannyaasastu mahaabaaho duhkham aaptuma yogatah;
Yogayukto munir brahma na chirenaadhigacchati.
6. But renunciation, O mighty-armed Arjuna, is hard to attain without Yoga; the
Yoga-harmonised sage proceeds quickly to Brahman!
Yogayukto vishuddhaatmaa vijitaatmaa jitendriyah;
Sarvabhootaatmabhootaatmaa kurvannapi na lipyate.
7. He who is devoted to the path of action, whose mind is quite pure, who has conquered the
self, who has subdued his senses and who has realised his Self as the Self in all beings, though
acting, he is not tainted.
Naiva kinchit karomeeti yukto manyeta tattwavit;
Pashyan shrunvan sprishan jighran nashnan gacchan swapan shwasan.
8. “I do nothing at all”—thus will the harmonised knower of Truth think—seeing, hearing,
touching, smelling, eating, going, sleeping, breathing,
Pralapan visrijan grihnan nunmishan nimishannapi;
Indriyaaneendriyaartheshu vartanta iti dhaarayan.
9. Speaking, letting go, seizing, opening and closing the eyes—convinced that the senses
move among the sense-objects.
COMMENTARY: The liberated sage always remains as a witness of the activities of the
senses as he identifies himself with the Self.
Brahmanyaadhaaya karmaani sangam tyaktwaa karoti yah;
Lipyate na sa paapena padmapatram ivaambhasaa.
10. He who performs actions, offering them to Brahman and abandoning attachment, is not
tainted by sin as a lotus leaf by water.
Kaayena manasaa buddhyaa kevalair indriyair api;
Yoginah karma kurvanti sangam tyaktwaatmashuddhaye.
11. Yogis, having abandoned attachment, perform actions only by the body, mind, intellect
and also by the senses, for the purification of the self.
Yuktah karmaphalam tyaktwaa shaantim aapnoti naishthikeem;
Ayuktah kaamakaarena phale sakto nibadhyate.
12. The united one (the well poised or the harmonised), having abandoned the fruit of
action, attains to the eternal peace; the non-united only (the unsteady or the unbalanced), impelled
by desire and attached to the fruit, is bound.
48