THE YOGA OF THE IMPERISHABLE BRAHMAN
21. What is called the Unmanifested and the Imperishable, That they say is the highest goal
(path). They who reach It do not return (to this cycle of births and deaths). That is My highest abode
(place or state).
Purushah sa parah paartha bhaktyaa labhyastwananyayaa;
Yasyaantahsthaani bhootaani yena sarvamidam tatam.
22. That highest Purusha, O Arjuna, is attainable by unswerving devotion to Him alone
within whom all beings dwell and by whom all this is pervaded.
Yatra kaale twanaavrittim aavrittim chaiva yoginah;
Prayaataa yaanti tam kaalam vakshyaami bharatarshabha.
23. Now I will tell thee, O chief of the Bharatas, the times departing at which the Yogis will
return or not return!
Agnijyotirahah shuklah shanmaasaa uttaraayanam;
Tatra prayaataa gacchanti brahma brahmavido janaah.
24. Fire, light, daytime, the bright fortnight, the six months of the northern path of the sun
(northern solstice)—departing then (by these), men who know Brahman go to Brahman.
Dhoomo raatristathaa krishnah shanmaasaa dakshinaayanam;
Tatra chaandramasam jyotir yogee praapya nivartate.
25. Attaining to the lunar light by smoke, night-time, the dark fortnight or the six months of
the southern path of the sun (the southern solstice), the Yogi returns.
Shuklakrishne gatee hyete jagatah shaashwate mate;
Ekayaa yaatyanaavrittim anyayaa’vartate punah.
26. The bright and the dark paths of the world are verily thought to be eternal; by the one
(the bright path) a person goes not to return again, and by the other (the dark path) he returns.
COMMENTARY: The bright path is the path to the gods taken by devotees. The dark path
is of the manes taken by those who perform sacrifices or charitable acts with the expectation of
rewards.
Naite sritee paartha jaanan yogee muhyati kashchana;
Tasmaat sarveshu kaaleshu yogayukto bhavaarjuna.
27. Knowing these paths, O Arjuna, no Yogi is deluded! Therefore, at all times be steadfast
in Yoga.
Vedeshu yajneshu tapahsu chaiva
Daaneshu yat punyaphalam pradishtam:
70