SANKHYA YOGA
49. Far lower than the Yoga of wisdom is action, O Arjuna! Seek thou refuge in wisdom;
wretched are they whose motive is the fruit.
COMMENTARY: Actions done with evenness of mind is the Yoga of wisdom. Actions
performed by one who expects their fruits are far inferior to the Yoga of wisdom wherein the seeker
does not seek the fruits. The former leads to bondage, and is the cause of birth and death.
Buddhiyukto jahaateeha ubhe sukrita dushkrite;
Tasmaad yogaaya yujyaswa yogah karmasu kaushalam.
50. Endowed with wisdom (evenness of mind), one casts off in this life both good and evil
deeds; therefore, devote thyself to Yoga; Yoga is skill in action.
COMMENTARY: Actions which are of a binding nature lose that nature when performed
with equanimity of mind.
Karmajam buddhiyuktaa hi phalam tyaktwaa maneeshinah;
Janmabandha vinirmuktaah padam gacchantyanaamayam.
51. The wise, possessed of knowledge, having abandoned the fruits of their actions, and
being freed from the fetters of birth, go to the place which is beyond all evil.
COMMENTARY: Clinging to the fruits of actions is the cause of rebirth. Man has to take a
body to enjoy them. If actions are done for the sake of God, without desire for the fruits, one is
released from the bonds of birth and death and attains to immortal bliss.
Yadaa te mohakalilam buddhir vyatitarishyati;
Tadaa gantaasi nirvedam shrotavyasya shrutasya cha.
52. When thy intellect crosses beyond the mire of delusion, then thou shalt attain to
indifference as to what has been heard and what has yet to be heard.
COMMENTARY: The mire of delusion is identification of the Self with the body and
mind.
Shrutivipratipannaa te yadaa sthaasyati nishchalaa;
Samaadhaavachalaa buddhistadaa yogam avaapsyasi.
53. When thy intellect, perplexed by what thou hast heard, shall stand immovable and
steady in the Self, then thou shalt attain Self-realisation.
Arjuna Uvaacha:
Sthitaprajnasya kaa bhaashaa samaadhisthasya keshava;
Sthitadheeh kim prabhaasheta kimaaseeta vrajeta kim.
Arjuna said:
26