THE YOGA OF THE DIVISION OF THE THREE GUNAS
The highest of the three qualities is Sattwa. It is pure. It brings about happiness, wisdom and
also illumination. The second quality of Rajas gives rise to passion manifested by intense
attachment and greed. It causes sorrow and suffering. The third, termed Tamas, is the worst of all. It
arises due to ignorance and results in darkness, lethargy and delusion.
Krishna asks us to diligently endeavour to cast out Tamas from our nature. We should
control and master Rajas, and by holding it in check, wisely divert its power towards good kinds of
activities. Sattwa should be carefully cultivated, developed and conserved in order to enable us to
attain immortality. The realised sage, of course, goes beyond all these qualities, for, although it is
Sattwa that enables him to reach God, even this quality will bind him if he is attached to it.
The aspirant should know the symptoms and signs of their presence in his personality and
acquire a knowledge of their subtle workings. Then only can he maintain an unhampered and
smooth progress in all activities of his life, both secular as well as spiritual. Lord Krishna teaches us
this important subject in this discourse from the ninth to the eighteenth verse. He declares that one
who rises beyond all the three Gunas through spiritual practices, becomes free from birth, death, old
age and sorrow, and enjoys immortality.
In reply to a question from Arjuna, the blessed Lord describes the marks of one who has
risen above the three Gunas. He states that if one constantly worships Him with exclusive devotion
one will attain the highest divine experience and supreme peace and blessedness.
Sri Bhagavaan Uvaacha:
Param bhooyah pravakshyaami jnaanaanaam jnaanamuttamam;
Yajjnaatwaa munayah sarve paraam siddhimito gataah.
The Blessed Lord said:
1. I will again declare (to thee) that supreme knowledge, the best of all knowledge, having
known which all the sages have gone to the supreme perfection after this life.
Idam jnaanam upaashritya mama saadharmyam aagataah;
Sarge’pi nopajaayante pralaye na vyathanti cha.
2. They who, having taken refuge in this knowledge, attain to unity with Me, are neither
born at the time of creation nor are they disturbed at the time of dissolution.
COMMENTARY: In this verse it is knowledge of the Supreme Self that is eulogised by
the Lord.
Mama yonirmahadbrahma tasmin garbham dadhaamyaham;
Sambhavah sarvabhootaanaam tato bhavati bhaarata.
3. My womb is the great Brahma; in that I place the germ; thence, O Arjuna, is the birth of all
beings!
106