BHAGAVAD GITA
13. That person who reads one discourse with supreme faith and devotion attains to the
world of Rudra and, having become a Gana (an attendant of Lord Shiva), lives there for many years.
Adhyaayam shlokapaadam vaa nityam yah pathate narah;
Sa yaati narataam yaavanmanwantaram vasundhare.
14. If one reads a discourse or even a part of a verse daily he, O Earth, retains a human body
till the end of a Manvantara (71 Mahayugas or 308,448,000 years).
Geetaayaah shloka dashakam sapta pancha chatushtayam;
Dwautreenekam tadardhamvaa shlokaanaam yah pathennarah.
Chandralokam avaapnoti varshaanaam ayutam dhruvam;
Geetaapaathasamaayukto mrito maanushataam vrajet.
15-16. He who repeats ten, seven, five, four, three, two verses or even one or half of it,
attains the region of the moon and lives there for 10,000 years. Accustomed to the daily study of the
Gita, a dying man comes back to life again as a human being.
Geetaabhyaasam punah kritwaa labhate muktim uttamaam;
Geetetyucchaarasamyukto mriyamaano gatim labhet.
17. By repeated study of the Gita, he attains liberation. Uttering the word Gita at the time of
death, a person attains liberation.
Geetaarthashravanaasakto mahaapaapayuto’pi vaa;
Vaikuntham samavaapnoti vishnunaa saha modate.
18. Though full of sins, one who is ever intent on hearing the meaning of the Gita, goes to
the kingdom of God and rejoices with Lord Vishnu.
Geetaartham dhyaayate nityam kritwaa karmaani bhoorishah;
Jeevanmuktah sa vijneyo dehaante paramam padam.
19. He who meditates on the meaning of the Gita, having performed many virtuous actions,
attains the supreme goal after death. Such an individual should be considered a true Jivanmukta.
COMMENTARY: A Jivanmukta is one who has attained liberation while living.
Geetaam aashritya bahavo bhoobhujo janakaadayah;
Nirdhootakalmashaa loke geetaa yaataah param padam.
20. In this world, taking refuge in the Gita, many kings like Janaka and others reached the
highest state or goal, purified of all sins.
Geetaayaah pathanam kritwaa maahaatmyam naiva yah pathet;
Vrithaa paatho bhavet tasya shrama eva hyudaahritah.
5