BHAGAVAD GITA
Raagee karmaphalaprepsur lubdho himsaatmako’shuchih;
Harshashokaanvitah kartaa raajasah parikeertitah.
27. Passionate, desiring to obtain the rewards of actions, cruel, greedy, impure, moved by
joy and sorrow, such an agent is said to be Rajasic.
Ayuktah praakritah stabdhah shatho naishkritiko’lasah;
Vishaadee deerghasootree cha kartaa taamasa uchyate.
28. Unsteady, dejected, unbending, cheating, malicious, vulgar, lazy and
proscrastinating—such an agent is called Tamasic.
Buddherbhedam dhriteshchaiva gunatastrividham shrinu;
Prochyamaanamasheshena prithaktwena dhananjaya.
29. Hear thou the threefold division of the intellect and firmness according to the Gunas, as I
declare them fully and distinctly, O Arjuna!
Pravrittim cha nivrittim cha karyaakaarye bhayaabhaye;
Bandhammoksham cha yaa vetti buddhih saa paartha saattwikee.
30. That which knows the path of work and renunciation, what ought to be done and what
ought not to be done, fear and fearlessness, bondage and liberation—that intellect is Sattwic, O
Arjuna!
Yayaa dharmamadharmam cha kaaryam chaakaaryameva cha;
Ayathaavat prajaanaati buddhih saa paartha raajasee.
31. That by which one incorrectly understands Dharma and Adharma, and also what ought
to be done and what ought not to be done—that intellect, O Arjuna, is Rajasic!
COMMENTARY: That which is ordained in the scriptures is Dharma. That which hurls
you into the abyss of ignorance is Adharma. The Rajasic intellect is not able to distinguish between
righteous and unrighteous actions.
Adharmam dharmamiti yaa manyate tamasaavritaa;
Sarvaarthaan vipareetaamshcha buddhih saa paartha taamasee.
32. That which, enveloped in darkness, views Adharma as Dharma and all things
perverted—that intellect, O Arjuna, is called Tamasic!
Dhrityaa yayaa dhaarayate manah praanendriyakriyaah;
Yogenaavyabhichaarinyaa dhritih saa paartha saattwikee.
33. The unwavering firmness by which, through Yoga, the functions of the mind, the
life-force and the senses are restrained—that firmness, O Arjuna, is Sattwic!
129