THE YOGA OF THE KINGLY SCIENCE & THE KINGLY SECRET
element is present, then the devotee is freed from bondage. The Lord observes the motive and
degree of devotion. Even the most sinful and diabolical man, if he takes a radical turn towards the
path of righteousness and truth, reaches the Lord. Whatever vocation one follows, one can attain the
Lord if one seeks earnestly and with loving devotion. The essential thing is to fix the mind on the
Lord and dedicate everything unto Him—one’s body, mind, actions, emotion and will.
Sri Bhagavaan Uvaacha:
Idam tu te guhyatamam pravakshyaamyanasooyave;
Jnaanam vijnaanasahitam yajjnaatwaa mokshyase’shubhaat.
The Blessed Lord said:
1. I shall now declare to thee who does not cavil, the greatest secret, the knowledge
combined with experience (Self-realisation). Having known this, thou shalt be free from evil.
Raajavidyaa raajaguhyam pavitramidamuttamam;
Pratyakshaavagamam dharmyam susukham kartumavyayam.
2. This is the kingly science, the kingly secret, the supreme purifier, realisable by direct
intuitional knowledge, according to righteousness, very easy to perform and imperishable.
Ashraddhadhaanaah purushaa dharmasyaasya parantapa;
Apraapya maam nivartante mrityusamsaaravartmani.
3. Those who have no faith in this Dharma (knowledge of the Self), O Parantapa (Arjuna),
return to the path of this world of death without attaining Me!
Mayaa tatamidam sarvam jagadavyaktamoortinaa;
Matsthaani sarvabhootaani na chaaham teshvavasthitah.
4. All this world is pervaded by Me in My unmanifest aspect; all beings exist in Me, but I do
not dwell in them.
Na cha matsthaani bhootaani pashya me yogamaishwaram;
Bhootabhrinna cha bhootastho mamaatmaa bhootabhaavanah.
5. Nor do beings exist in Me (in reality): behold My divine Yoga, supporting all beings, but
not dwelling in them, is My Self, the efficient cause of beings.
Yathaakaashasthito nityam vaayuh sarvatrago mahaan;
Tathaa sarvaani bhootaani matsthaaneetyupadhaaraya.
6. As the mighty wind, moving everywhere, rests always in the ether, even so, know thou
that all beings rest in Me.
72