THE YOGA OF LIBERATION BY RENUNCIATION
19. Knowledge, action and the actor are declared in the science of the Gunas (the Sankhya
philosophy) to be of three kinds only, according to the distinction of the Gunas. Hear them also
duly.
Sarvabhooteshu yenaikam bhaavamavyayameekshate;
Avibhaktam vibhakteshu tajjnaanam viddhi saattwikam.
20. That by which one sees the one indestructible Reality in all beings, not separate in all the
separate beings—know thou that knowledge to be Sattwic (pure).
Prithaktwena tu yajjnaanam naanaabhaavaan prithagvidhaan;
Vetti sarveshu bhooteshu tajjnaanam viddhi raajasam.
21. But that knowledge which sees in all beings various entities of distinct kinds as different
from one another—know thou that knowledge to be Rajasic (passionate).
Yattu kritsnavadekasmin kaarye saktamahaitukam;
Atattwaarthavadalpam cha tattaamasamudaahritam.
22. But that which clings to one single effect as if it were the whole, without reason, without
foundation in Truth, and trivial—that is declared to be Tamasic (dark).
Niyatam sangarahitam araagadweshatah kritam;
Aphalaprepsunaa karma yattat saattwikamuchyate.
23. An action which is ordained, which is free from attachment, which is done without love
or hatred by one who is not desirous of any reward—that action is declared to be Sattwic.
Yattu kaamepsunaa karma saahankaarena vaa punah;
Kriyate bahulaayaasam tadraajasamudaahritam.
24. But that action which is done by one longing for the fulfilment of desires or gain, with
egoism or with much effort—that is declared to be Rajasic.
Anubandham kshayam himsaam anavekshya cha paurusham;
Mohaadaarabhyate karma yattat taamasamuchyate.
25. That action which is undertaken from delusion, without regard to the consequences of
loss, injury and (one’s own) ability—that is declared to be Tamasic.
Muktasango’nahamvaadi dhrityutsaahasamanvitah;
Siddhyasiddhyor nirvikaarah kartaa saattwika uchyate.
26. He who is free from attachment, non-egoistic, endowed with firmness and enthusiasm
and unaffected by success or failure, is called Sattwic.
128