THE YOGA OF THE KINGLY SCIENCE & THE KINGLY SECRET
27. Whatever thou doest, whatever thou eatest, whatever thou offerest in sacrifice, whatever
thou givest, whatever thou practiseth as austerity, O Arjuna, do it as an offering unto Me!
Shubhaashubhaphalairevam mokshyase karmabandhanaih;
Sannyaasayogayuktaatmaa vimukto maamupaishyasi.
28. Thus shalt thou be freed from the bonds of actions yielding good and evil fruits; with the
mind steadfast in the Yoga of renunciation, and liberated, thou shalt come unto Me.
Samo’ham sarvabhooteshu na me dweshyo’sti na priyah;
Ye bhajanti tu maam bhaktyaa mayi te teshu chaapyaham.
29. The same am I to all beings; to Me there is none hateful or dear; but those who worship
Me with devotion are in Me and I am also in them.
Api chet suduraachaaro bhajate maamananyabhaak;
Saadhureva sa mantavyah samyagvyavasito hi sah.
30. Even if the most sinful worships Me, with devotion to none else, he too should indeed be
regarded as righteous, for he has rightly resolved.
Kshipram bhavati dharmaatmaa shashwacchaantim nigacchati;
Kaunteya pratijaaneehi na me bhaktah pranashyati.
31. Soon he becomes righteous and attains to eternal peace; O Arjuna, know thou for certain
that My devotee is never destroyed!
Maam hi paartha vyapaashritya ye’pi syuh paapayonayah;
Striyo vaishyaastathaa shoodraaste’pi yaanti paraam gatim.
32. For, taking refuge in Me, they also, who, O Arjuna, may be of sinful birth—women,
Vaisyas as well as Sudras—attain the Supreme Goal!
Kim punarbraahmanaah punyaa bhaktaa raajarshayastathaa;
Anityamasukham lokam imam praapya bhajaswa maam.
33. How much more easily then the holy Brahmins and devoted royal saints (attain the
goal); having obtained this impermanent and unhappy world, do thou worship Me.
Manmanaa bhava madbhakto madyaajee maam namaskuru;
Maamevaishyasi yuktwaivamaatmaanam matparaayanah.
34. Fix thy mind on Me; be devoted to Me; sacrifice unto Me; bow down to Me; having thus
united thy whole self with Me, taking Me as the Supreme Goal, thou shalt verily come unto Me.
76