BHAGAVAD GITA
be able to withdraw the senses from objects, like the tortoise which withdraws all its limbs within.
Krishna asserts that only one who has the capacity to be balanced in pleasure and pain alike is fit for
immortality.
Krishna goes on to tell Arjuna that if he refuses to fight and flees from the battle, people will
be justified in condemning such action as unworthy of a warrior.
Having taught Arjuna the immortal nature of the Atman, Lord Krishna turns to the
performance of action without expectation of fruit. A man should not concern himself about the
fruit of the action, like gain and loss, victory and defeat. These are in the hands of the Lord. He
should perform all action with a balanced mind, calmly enduring the pairs of opposites like heat and
cold, pleasure and pain, that inevitably manifest during action. Krishna advises Arjuna to fight, free
from desire for acquisition of kingdom or preservation of it.
Arjuna is eager to know the characteristics of a man who has a stable mind. Such a person,
Krishna tells him, will have no desires at all. Since he is content within, having realised the Self, he
is entirely free from desires. The consciousness of the Atman and abandonment of desires are
simultaneous experiences. The various qualities of a Sthitaprajna (a stable-minded person) are
described by the Lord. He will not be affected by adversity and will have no fear or anger. He will
take things as they come, and will not have any likes and dislikes. He will neither hug the world nor
hate it.
The man of stable mind will have perfect control of the senses. The senses are powerful and
draw the mind outwards. One should therefore turn one’s gaze within and realise God who resides
in the heart. The Yogi, having achieved a stable mind, remains steadfast even though all
sense-objects come to him. He is unmoved and lives a life of eternal peace.
Krishna concludes that the eternal Brahmic state frees one from delusion forever. Even at
the end of life, when one departs from this body, one does not lose consciousness of one’s identity
with Brahman.
Sanjaya Uvaacha:
Tam tathaa kripayaavishtam ashrupoornaakulekshanam;
Visheedantam idam vaakyam uvaacha madhusoodanah.
Sanjaya said:
1. To him who was thus overcome with pity and who was despondent, with eyes full of tears
and agitated, Krishna or Madhusudana (the destroyer of Madhu), spoke these words.
Sri Bhagavaan Uvaacha:
Kutastwaa kashmalam idam vishame samupasthitam;
Anaaryajushtam aswargyam akeertikaram arjuna.
17