THE YOGA OF ACTION
Niyatam kuru karma twam karma jyaayo hyakarmanah;
Shareerayaatraapi cha te na prasiddhyed akarmanah.
8. Do thou perform thy bounden duty, for action is superior to inaction and even the
maintenance of the body would not be possible for thee by inaction.
Yajnaarthaat karmano’nyatra loko’yam karmabandhanah;
Tadartham karma kaunteya muktasangah samaachara.
9. The world is bound by actions other than those performed for the sake of sacrifice; do
thou, therefore, O son of Kunti, perform action for that sake (for sacrifice) alone, free from
attachment!
COMMENTARY: If anyone does actions for the sake of the Lord, he is not bound. His
heart is purified by performing actions for the sake of the Lord. Where this spirit of unselfishness
does not govern the action, such actions bind one to worldliness, however good or glorious they
may be.
Sahayajnaah prajaah srishtwaa purovaacha prajaapatih;
Anena prasavishyadhwam esha vo’stvishtakaamadhuk.
10. The Creator, having in the beginning of creation created mankind together with
sacrifice, said: “By this shall ye propagate; let this be the milch cow of your desires (the cow which
yields the desired objects)”.
Devaan bhaavayataanena te devaa bhaavayantu vah;
Parasparam bhaavayantah shreyah param avaapsyatha.
11. With this do ye nourish the gods, and may the gods nourish you; thus nourishing one
another, ye shall attain to the highest good.
Ishtaan bhogaan hi vo devaa daasyante yajnabhaavitaah;
Tair dattaan apradaayaibhyo yo bhungkte stena eva sah.
12. The gods, nourished by the sacrifice, will give you the desired objects. So, he who
enjoys the objects given by the gods without offering (in return) to them, is verily a thief.
Yajnashishtaashinah santo muchyante sarva kilbishaih;
Bhunjate te twagham paapaa ye pachantyaatma kaaranaat.
13. The righteous, who eat of the remnants of the sacrifice, are freed from all sins; but those
sinful ones who cook food (only) for their own sake, verily eat sin.
Annaad bhavanti bhootaani parjanyaad anna sambhavah;
Yajnaad bhavati parjanyo yajnah karma samudbhavah.
32