BHAGAVAD GITA
30. Those who know Me with the Adhibhuta (pertaining to the elements), the Adhidaiva
(pertaining to the gods), and Adhiyajna (pertaining to the sacrifice), know Me even at the time of
death, steadfast in mind.
COMMENTARY: They who are steadfast in mind, who have taken refuge in Me, who
know Me as knowledge of elements on the physical plane, as knowledge of gods on the celestial or
mental plane, as knowledge of sacrifice in the realm of sacrifice,—they are not affected by death.
Hari Om Tat Sat
Iti Srimad Bhagavadgeetaasoopanishatsu Brahmavidyaayaam
Yogashaastre Sri Krishnaarjunasamvaade
Jnaanavijnaanayogo Naama Saptamo’dhyaayah
Thus in the Upanishads of the glorious Bhagavad Gita, the science of the Eternal, the
scripture of Yoga, the dialogue between Sri Krishna and Arjuna, ends the seventh discourse
entitled:
“The Yoga of Wisdom and Realisation”
VIII
THE YOGA OF THE IMPERISHABLE BRAHMAN
Summary of Eighth Discourse
Lord Krishna explains how those who attain Him do not have to come again into this
impermanent world of sorrow and pain. All beings, including even the gods, come again and again
into this created universe from the state of unmanifest being wherein they remained at the end of an
age-cycle. But the Lord exists even beyond this unmanifest being. That radiant, imperishable
Divine Reality is the highest goal to be attained. Single-minded devotion of our heart is the means
of attaining this highest blessed state.
Even though there are auspicious and inauspicious circumstances of departing from the
physical body and journeying forth, yet if one steadily abides in the Lord through firm devotion and
faith, then these conditions do not matter. By always remaining in tune with the Lord through pure
love, everything is made auspicious, if one can ever remain united with the Divine through deep
devotion, constant remembrance, regular meditation and continuous communion, then all times,
places, conditions and situations become auspicious and blessed. This is the secret of invoking His
Grace and attaining Him and becoming eternally free and blissful.
Arjuna here asks Lord Krishna about the meaning of the different terms referred to by Him
in the last two verses of the previous chapter. He wishes to know what is the Supreme Being, what is
Karma or action that He refers to, and what is the meaning that pertains to this spirit, the elements
and the centre of all things within this human body.
65