THE YOGA OF MEDITATION
erect but not tensed. He should fix his purified mind on the Atman by concentrating between the
eyebrows or on the tip of the nose.
The practice of Brahmacharya is absolutely necessary if one is to succeed in meditation.
The conservation and transformation of the vital fluid into spiritual energy gives immense power of
concentration. Fearlessness, too, is an essential quality on the Godward path. It is faith in the
sustaining protection and Grace of God.
The aspirant is advised to practise moderation in his daily habits—in eating, sleeping,
recreation, etc. Extremes are to be avoided as they hinder the practice of meditation. Living a life of
such moderation, and gathering up all his forces and directing them towards meditation upon the
Atman, the aspirant gradually transcends the senses and intellect and merges himself in the blissful
Atman. He finds that the bliss of the Atman is incomparable, that there is no gain greater than the
Self. Having thus attained perfect union with the Self, the Yogi no more descends into ignorance or
delusion. He does not relish any more the pleasures of the senses.
Lord Krishna again emphasises that the concentration of the mind on the Atman should be
like a steady flame in a windless place. This ultimately leads to the vision of the Lord in all beings
and creatures. Arjuna is doubtful whether it is at all possible to engage the mind steadily on the
higher Self, as its very nature seems to be one of restlessness. Krishna assures him that the practice
can succeed through Vairagya (dispassion) and constant effort.
Arjuna wishes to know the fate of the aspirant who fails to realise the Supreme in spite of his
faith and sincerity. Krishna tells him that the accumulated power of his Yogic practices will assure
him a better birth in the future, with more favourable conditions for Sadhana. The aspirant will then
be compelled to carry on his Yogic practices with greater vigour and faith and will finally achieve
God-realisation.
Krishna concludes that the Yogi—one who has attained union with the Supreme Lord—is
superior to the ascetics, to the men of book knowledge and the men of action, as the latter have not
transcended ignorance and merged in the Self.
Sri Bhagavaan Uvaacha:
Anaashritah karmaphalam kaaryam karma karoti yah;
Sa sannyaasi cha yogee cha na niragnirna chaakriyah.
The Blessed Lord said:
1. He who performs his bounden duty without depending on the fruits of his actions—he is a
Sannyasin and a Yogi, not he who is without fire and without action.
Yam sannyaasamiti praahuryogam tam viddhi paandava;
Na hyasannyastasankalpo yogee bhavati kashchana.
52