THE YOGA OF THE KINGLY SCIENCE & THE KINGLY SECRET
Satatam keertayanto maam yatantashcha dridhavrataah;
Namasyantashcha maam bhaktyaa nityayuktaa upaasate.
14. Always glorifying Me, striving, firm in vows, prostrating before Me, they worship Me
with devotion, ever steadfast.
Jnaanayajnena chaapyanye yajanto maamupaasate;
Ekatwena prithaktwena bahudhaa vishwatomukham.
15. Others also, sacrificing with the wisdom-sacrifice, worship Me, the all-faced, as one, as
distinct, and as manifold.
Aham kraturaham yajnah swadhaa’hamahamaushadham;
Mantro’hamahamevaajyam ahamagniraham hutam.
16. I am the Kratu; I am the Yajna; I am the offering (food) to the manes; I am the medicinal
herb and all the plants; I am the Mantra; I am also the ghee or melted butter; I am the fire; I am the
oblation.
Pitaahamasya jagato maataa dhaataa pitaamahah;
Vedyam pavitramonkaara riksaama yajureva cha.
17. I am the father of this world, the mother, the dispenser of the fruits of actions, and the
grandfather; the (one) thing to be known, the purifier, the sacred monosyllable (Om), and also the
Rig-, the Sama- and Yajur Vedas.
Gatirbhartaa prabhuh saakshee nivaasah sharanam suhrit;
Prabhavah pralayah sthaanam nidhaanam beejamavyayam.
18. I am the goal, the support, the Lord, the witness, the abode, the shelter, the friend, the
origin, the dissolution, the foundation, the treasure-house and the imperishable seed.
Tapaamyahamaham varsham nigrihnaamyutsrijaami cha;
Amritam chaiva mrityushcha sadasacchaahamarjuna.
19. (As the sun) I give heat; I withhold and send forth the rain; I am immortality and also
death, existence and non-existence, O Arjuna!
Traividyaa maam somapaah pootapaapaa
Yajnairishtwaa swargatim praarthayante;
Te punyamaasaadya surendraloka-
Mashnanti divyaan divi devabhogaan.
20. The knowers of the three Vedas, the drinkers of Soma, purified of all sins, worshipping
Me by sacrifices, pray for the way to heaven; they reach the holy world of the Lord of the gods and
enjoy in heaven the divine pleasures of the gods.
74