BHAGAVAD GITA
2. Do thou, O Arjuna, know Yoga to be that which they call renunciation; no one verily
becomes a Yogi who has not renounced thoughts!
COMMENTARY: Lord Krishna eulogises Karma Yoga here because it is a means or a
stepping stone to the Yoga of meditation. In order to encourage the practice of Karma Yoga it is
stated here that it is Sannyasa.
Aarurukshormuneryogam karma kaaranamuchyate;
Yogaaroodhasya tasyaiva shamah kaaranamuchyate.
3. For a sage who wishes to attain to Yoga, action is said to be the means; for the same sage
who has attained to Yoga, inaction (quiescence) is said to be the means.
Yadaa hi nendriyaartheshu na karmaswanushajjate;
Sarvasankalpasannyaasee yogaaroodhas tadochyate.
4. When a man is not attached to the sense-objects or to actions, having renounced all
thoughts, then he is said to have attained to Yoga.
Uddharedaatmanaatmaanam naatmaanamavasaadayet;
Atmaiva hyaatmano bandhuraatmaiva ripuraatmanah.
5. Let a man lift himself by his own Self alone; let him not lower himself, for this self alone
is the friend of oneself and this self alone is the enemy of oneself.
Bandhuraatmaa’tmanastasya yenaatmaivaatmanaa jitah;
Anaatmanastu shatrutwe vartetaatmaiva shatruvat.
6. The self is the friend of the self for him who has conquered himself by the Self, but to the
unconquered self, this self stands in the position of an enemy like the (external) foe.
Jitaatmanah prashaantasya paramaatmaa samaahitah;
Sheetoshna sukha duhkheshu tathaa maanaapamaanayoh.
7. The Supreme Self of him who is self-controlled and peaceful is balanced in cold and heat,
pleasure and pain, as also in honour and dishonour.
Jnaana vijnaana triptaatmaa kootastho vijitendriyah;
Yuktah ityuchyate yogee samaloshtaashmakaanchanah.
8. The Yogi who is satisfied with the knowledge and the wisdom (of the Self), who has
conquered the senses, and to whom a clod of earth, a piece of stone and gold are the same, is said to
be harmonised (that is, is said to have attained the state of Nirvikalpa Samadhi).
Suhrinmitraary udaaseena madhyastha dweshya bandhushu;
Saadhushwapi cha paapeshu samabuddhirvishishyate.
53