BHAGAVAD GITA
GITA DHYANAM
MEDITATION ON THE GITA
Om paarthaaya pratibodhitaam bhagavataa naaraayanenaswayam,
Vyaasena grathitaam puraanamuninaa madhye mahaabhaaratam;
Advaitaamritavarshineem bhagavateem ashtaadashaa dhyaayineem,
Amba twaam anusandadhaami bhagavadgeete bhavadweshineem.
1. Om. O Bhagavad Gita, with which Partha was illumined by Lord Narayana Himself, and
which was composed within the Mahabharata by the ancient sage, Vyasa, O Divine Mother, the
destroyer of rebirth, the showerer of the nectar of Advaita, and consisting of eighteen
discourses—upon Thee, O Gita, O affectionate Mother, I meditate!
Namostu te vyaasa vishaalabuddhe phullaaravindaayatapatranetra;
Yena twayaa bhaaratatailapoornah prajwaalito jnaanamayah pradeepah.
2. Salutations unto thee, O Vyasa, of broad intellect and with eyes like the petals of a
full-blown lotus, by whom the lamp of knowledge, filled with the oil of the Mahabharata, has been
lighted!
Prapannapaarijaataaya totravetraikapaanaye;
Jnaanamudraaya krishnaaya geetaamritaduhe namah.
3. Salutations to Lord Krishna, the Parijata or the Kalpataru or the bestower of all desires for
those who take refuge in Him, the holder of the whip in one hand, the holder of the symbol of divine
knowledge and the milker of the divine nectar of the Bhagavad Gita!
Sarvopanishado gaavo dogdhaa gopaalanandanah;
Paartho vatsah sudheer bhoktaa dugdham geetaamritam mahat.
4. All the Upanishads are the cows; the milker is Krishna; the cowherd boy, Partha
(Arjuna), is the calf; men of purified intellect are the drinkers; the milk is the great nectar of the
Gita.
Vasudevasutam devam kamsachaanooramardanam;
Devakeeparamaanandam krishnam vande jagadgurum.
5. I salute Sri Krishna, the world-teacher, son of Vasudeva, the destroyer of Kamsa and
Chanura, the supreme bliss of Devaki!
Bheeshmadronatataa jayadrathajalaa gaandhaaraneelotpalaa;
Shalyagraahavatee kripena vahanee karnena velaakulaa;
Ashwatthaama-vikarna-ghora-makaraa duryodhanaavartinee;
Sotteernaa khalu paandavai rananadee kaivartakah keshavah.
7