THE YOGA OF THE DIVINE GLORIES
Athavaa bahunaitena kim jnaatena tavaarjuna;
Vishtabhyaahamidam kritsnamekaamshena sthito jagat.
42. But of what avail to thee is the knowledge of all these details, O Arjuna? I exist,
supporting this whole world by one part of Myself.
Hari Om Tat Sat
Iti Srimad Bhagavadgeetaasoopanishatsu Brahmavidyaayaam
Yogashaastre Sri Krishnaarjunasamvaade
Vibhootiyogo Naama Dashamo’dhyaayah
Thus in the Upanishads of the glorious Bhagavad Gita, the science of the Eternal, the
scripture of Yoga, the dialogue between Sri Krishna and Arjuna, ends the tenth discourse entitled:
“The Yoga of the Divine Glories”
XI
THE YOGA OF THE VISION OF THE COSMIC FORM
Summary of Eleventh Discourse
Arjuna’s doubts having been removed through a clear description of the nature of the Atman
and the origin and destruction of all created things, he is now ready to behold the Cosmic Vision.
Krishna grants him the divine sight by means of which Arjuna beholds the Lord as the vast
Cosmic Manifestation. The vision is at once all-comprehensive and simultaneous. In every
direction Arjuna sees the Lord as the entire universe. All the created worlds, gods, beings, creatures
and things stand revealed as the one gigantic body of the Lord.
Arjuna further sees that the great cosmic drama is set in motion and controlled by the
all-mighty power of the Lord. His Will alone prevails in all things and actions, both good and bad.
The Lord exhorts him to fight, he being only an apparent cause of the destruction of his enemies.
Arjuna is unable to bear the pressure of the sudden expansion of consciousness and is filled
with fear. He begs the Lord to assume once more His usual form.
Krishna reiterates that this vision cannot be had through any amount of austerities, study,
sacrifices or philanthrophic acts. Supreme devotion is the only means by which one can have access
to His grand vision.
Arjuna Uvaacha:
Madanugrahaaya paramam guhyamadhyaatmasamjnitam;
Yattwayoktam vachastena moho’yam vigato mama.
84