BHAGAVAD GITA
14. From food come forth beings, and from rain food is produced; from sacrifice arises rain,
and sacrifice is born of action.
Karma brahmodbhavam viddhi brahmaakshara samudbhavam;
Tasmaat sarvagatam brahma nityam yajne pratishthitam.
15. Know thou that action comes from Brahma, and Brahma proceeds from the
Imperishable. Therefore, the all-pervading (Brahma) ever rests in sacrifice.
Evam pravartitam chakram naanuvartayateeha yah;
Aghaayur indriyaaraamo mogham paartha sa jeevati.
16. He who does not follow the wheel thus set revolving, who is of sinful life, rejoicing in
the senses, he lives in vain, O Arjuna!
COMMENTARY: He who does not follow the wheel by studying the Vedas and
performing the sacrifices prescribed therein, but who indulges only in sensual pleasures, lives in
vain. He wastes his life.
Yastwaatmaratir eva syaad aatmatriptashcha maanavah;
Aatmanyeva cha santushtas tasya kaaryam na vidyate.
17. But for that man who rejoices only in the Self, who is satisfied in the Self, who is content
in the Self alone, verily there is nothing to do.
Naiva tasya kritenaartho naakriteneha kashchana;
Na chaasya sarvabhooteshu kashchidartha vyapaashrayah.
18. For him there is no interest whatsoever in what is done or what is not done; nor does he
depend on any being for any object.
COMMENTARY: The sage who rejoices in his own Self does not gain anything by doing
any action. To him no real purpose is served by engaging in any action. No evil can touch him as a
result of inaction. He does not lose anything by being inactive.
Tasmaad asaktah satatam kaaryam karma samaachara;
Asakto hyaacharan karma param aapnoti poorushah.
19. Therefore, without attachment, do thou always perform action which should be done;
for, by performing action without attachment man reaches the Supreme.
Karmanaiva hi samsiddhim aasthitaa janakaadayah;
Lokasangraham evaapi sampashyan kartum arhasi.
20. Janaka and others attained perfection verily by action only; even with a view to the
protection of the masses thou shouldst perform action.
33