BHAGAVAD GITA
creation of variegated phenomena. This is a very mysterious “Tree” which is very difficult to
understand, being a product of His inscrutable power of Maya; and hence a marvellous, apparent
appearance without having actual reality. One who fully understands the nature of this
Samsara-Tree goes beyond Maya. To be attached to it is to be caught in it. The surest way of
transcending this Samsara or worldly life is by wielding the excellent weapon of dispassion and
non-attachment.
In verses four and five of this discourse the Lord tells us how one goes beyond this visible
Samsara and attains the supreme, imperishable status, attaining which one does not have to return to
this mortal world of pain and death.
Lord Krishna also describes for us the wonderful mystery of His Presence in this universe
and the supreme place He occupies in sustaining everything here. The Lord declares that it is a part
of Himself that manifests here as the individual soul in each body. He Himself is the indwelling
Oversoul beyond the self. He is the effulgence inherent in the sun, moon and fire. He is present as
the nourishing element in the earth. He is the inner witness of all beings. He is the supreme Knower
even beyond Vedic knowledge. He is the resplendent Person who is beyond both this perishable
phenomenal creation as well as the imperishable individual soul which is a part of His eternal
essence. Thus, because He is beyond perishable matter and superior to the imperishable soul
(enveloped in Maya), He is known in this world as well as in the Vedas as the Supreme Person.
Sri Bhagavaan Uvaacha:
Oordhwamoolam adhahshaakham ashwattham praahuravyayam;
Cchandaamsi yasya parnaani yastam veda sa vedavit.
The Blessed Lord said:
1. They (the wise) speak of the indestructible peepul tree, having its root above and
branches below, whose leaves are the metres or hymns; he who knows it is a knower of the Vedas.
Adhashchordhwam prasritaastasya shaakhaah
Gunapravriddhaa vishayapravaalaah;
Adhashcha moolaanyanusantataani
Karmaanubandheeni manushyaloke.
2. Below and above spread its branches, nourished by the Gunas; sense-objects are its buds;
and below in the world of men stretch forth the roots, originating action.
Na roopamasyeha tathopalabhyate
Naanto na chaadirna cha sampratishthaa;
Ashwatthamenam suviroodhamoolam
Asangashastrena dridhena cchittwaa.
111