GITA MAHATMYA
6. Help comes quickly where the Gita is recited and, O Earth, I ever dwell where it is read,
heard, taught and contemplated upon!
Geetaashraye’ham tishthaami geetaa me chottamam griham;
Geetaajnaanam upaashritya treen Uokaan paalayaamyaham.
7. I take refuge in the Gita, and the Gita is My best abode. I protect the three worlds with the
knowledge of the Gita.
Geetaa me paramaa vidyaa brahmaroopaa na samshayah;
Ardhamaatraaksharaa nityaa swaanirvaachyapadaatmikaa.
8. The Gita is My highest science, which is doubtless of the form of Brahman, the Eternal,
the Ardhamatra (of the Pranava Om), the ineffable splendour of the Self.
Chidaanandena krishnena proktaa swamukhato’rjuna;
Vedatrayee paraanandaa tatwaarthajnaanasamyutaa.
9. It was spoken by the blessed Lord Krishna, the all-knowing, through His own mouth, to
Arjuna. It contains the essence of the Vedas—the knowledge of the Reality. It is full of supreme
bliss.
COMMENTARY: The Gita contains the cream of the Vedas and Upanishads. Hence it is a
universal scripture suited for people of all temperaments and for all ages.
Yoashtaadasha japen nityam naro nishchalamaanasah;
Jnaanasiddhim sa labhate tato yaati param padam.
10. He who recites the eighteen chapters of the Bhagavad Gita daily, with a pure and
unshaken mind, attains perfection in knowledge, and reaches the highest state or supreme goal.
Paathe’asamarthah sampoornam tato’rdham paathamaacharet;
Tadaa godaanajam punyam labhate naatra samshayah.
11. If a complete reading is not possible, even if only half is read, he attains the benefit of
giving a cow as a gift. There is no doubt about this.
Tribhaagam pathamaanastu gangaasnaanaphalam labhet;
Shadamsham japamaanastu somayaagaphalam labhet.
12. He who recites one-third part of it achieves the merit of a bath in the sacred river
Ganges; and who recites one-sixth of it attains the merit of performing a Soma sacrifice (a kind of
ritual).
Ekaadhyaayam tu yo nityam pathate bhaktisamyutah;
Rudralokam avaapnoti gano bhootwaa vasecchiram.
4