BHAGAVAD GITA
6. The great elements, egoism, intellect and also unmanifested Nature, the ten senses and
one, and the five objects of the senses,
COMMENTARY: Great elements: earth, water, fire, air and ether are so called because
they pervade all modifications of matter. The ten senses are: the five organs of knowledge (ears,
skin, eyes, tongue and nose), and the five organs of action (hand, feet, mouth, anus and generative
organ).
The one: this is the mind. The five objects of the senses are sound, touch, form colour, taste
and smell.
Icchaa dweshah sukham duhkham sanghaatashchetanaa dhritih;
Etat kshetram samaasena savikaaramudaahritam.
7. Desire, hatred, pleasure, pain, the aggregate (the body), fortitude and intelligence—the
Field has thus been described briefly with its modifications.
Amaanitwam adambhitwam ahimsaa kshaantiraarjavam;
Aachaaryopaasanam shaucham sthairyamaatmavinigrahah.
8. Humility, unpretentiousness, non-injury, forgiveness, uprightness, service of the teacher,
purity, steadfastness, self-control,
Indriyaartheshu vairaagyamanahankaara eva cha;
Janmamrityujaraavyaadhi duhkhadoshaanu darshanam.
9. Indifference to the objects of the senses, also absence of egoism, perception of (or
reflection on) the evil in birth, death, old age, sickness and pain,
Asaktiranabhishwangah putradaaragrihaadishu;
Nityam cha samachittatwam ishtaanishtopapattishu.
10. Non-attachment, non-identification of the Self with son, wife, home and the rest, and
constant even-mindedness on the attainment of the desirable and the undesirable,
Mayi chaananyayogena bhaktiravyabhichaarinee;
Viviktadesha sevitwam aratir janasamsadi.
11. Unswerving devotion unto Me by the Yoga of non-separation, resort to solitary places,
distaste for the society of men,
Adhyaatma jnaana nityatwam tattwa jnaanaartha darshanam;
Etajjnaanamiti proktam ajnaanam yadato’nyathaa.
12. Constancy in Self-knowledge, perception of the end of true knowledge—this is declared
to be knowledge, and what is opposed to it is ignorance.
101