THE YOGA OF THE DIVINE GLORIES
Aayudhaanaamaham vajram dhenoonaamasmi kaamadhuk;
Prajanashchaasmi kandarpah sarpaanaamasmi vaasukih.
28. Among weapons I am the thunderbolt; among cows I am the wish-fulfilling cow called
Surabhi; I am the progenitor, the god of love; among serpents I am Vasuki.
Anantashchaasmi naagaanaam varuno yaadasaamaham;
Pitreenaamaryamaa chaasmi yamah samyamataamaham.
29. I am Ananta among the Nagas; I am Varuna among water-Deities; Aryaman among the
manes I am; I am Yama among the governors.
Prahlaadashchaasmi daityaanaam kaalah kalayataamaham;
Mrigaanaam cha mrigendro’ham vainateyashcha pakshinaam.
30. And, I am Prahlad among the demons; among the reckoners I am time; among beasts I
am their king, the lion; and Garuda among birds.
Pavanah pavataamasmi raamah shastrabhritaamaham;
Jhashaanaam makarashchaasmi srotasaamasmi jaahnavee.
31. Among the purifiers (or the speeders) I am the wind; Rama among the warriors am I;
among the fishes I am the shark; among the streams I am the Ganga.
Sargaanaamaadirantashcha madhyam chaivaaham arjuna;
Adhyaatmavidyaa vidyaanaam vaadah pravadataamaham.
32. Among creations I am the beginning, the middle and also the end, O Arjuna! Among the
sciences I am the science of the Self; and I am logic among controversialists.
Aksharaanaamakaaro’smi dwandwah saamaasikasya cha;
Ahamevaakshayah kaalo dhaataaham vishwatomukhah.
33. Among the letters of the alphabet, the letter “A” I am, and the dual among the
compounds. I am verily the inexhaustible or everlasting time; I am the dispenser (of the fruits of
actions), having faces in all directions.
Mrityuh sarvaharashchaaham udbhavashcha bhavishyataam;
Keertih shreervaakcha naareenaam smritirmedhaadhritih kshamaa.
34. And I am all-devouring death, and prosperity of those who are to be prosperous; among
feminine qualities (I am) fame, prosperity, speech, memory, intelligence, firmness and forgiveness.
Brihatsaama tathaa saamnaam gaayatree cchandasaamaham;
Maasaanaam maargasheersho’hamritoonaam kusumaakarah.
82