BHAGAVAD GITA
Shraddhadhaanaah matparamaa bhaktaaste’teeva me priyaah.
20. They verily who follow this immortal Dharma (doctrine or law) as described above,
endowed with faith, regarding Me as their supreme goal, they, the devotees, are exceedingly dear to
Me.
Hari Om Tat Sat
Iti Srimad Bhagavadgeetaasoopanishatsu Brahmavidyaayaam
Yogashaastre Sri Krishnaarjunasamvaade
Bhaktiyogo Naama Dwaadasho’dhyaayah
Thus in the Upanishads of the glorious Bhagavad Gita, the science of the Eternal, the
scripture of Yoga, the dialogue between Sri Krishna and Arjuna, ends the twelfth discourse entitled:
“The Yoga of Devotion”
XIII
THE YOGA OF DISTINCTION BETWEEN THE FIELD & THE
KNOWER OF THE FIELD
Summary of Thirteenth Discourse
In this discourse we have one of the most significant, most illuminating, most inspiring and
most mystical portions of the Bhagavad Gita. The Lord gives us a wonderfully revealing insight
into the human individual. It is the metaphysics of man, the unknown. The immortal Soul, with its
physical embodiment, is the main theme of this discourse. The supreme transcendental Spirit,
which is the eternal substratum beyond both, is also described in a wonderful manner. The knower
of the Supreme Reality is instantly liberated.
The blessed Lord tells us that the knowledge of the Field and the Knower of the Field is the
true knowledge. This highest and the best knowledge grants us divine wisdom and spiritual
illumination that lead to divine beatitude. This body is the Field. The Immortal Soul (yourself),
dwelling in the body is the Knower of the Field. Verily, it is the Supreme Being who has projected
Himself and assumed the form of this Knower of the Field within this body. This self is none other
than That. Thus, Lord Krishna explains the mystery of the individual soul dwelling within this
mortal body. This knowledge constitutes the main subject matter of all the scriptures and the
highest philosophical works.
The five elements, the ego, the mind, intellect and the ten organs, desire and aversion and
such factors constitute the Field. Next follows a wonderful summing-up of what constitutes true
knowledge. Then follows the declaration of the Supreme Soul, the knowledge of which grants us
immortality. That Supreme Reality is the one universal Essence present everywhere. It pervades all.
It shines within the inmost chambers of our heart, it is everything, it is the one seer, the witness, the
guide, sustainer, experiencer and Lord of all. One who knows this mystery is not bound by activity
99