THE YOGA OF THE DIVISION OF THE THREEFOLD FAITH
27. Steadfastness in sacrifice, austerity and gift, is also called Sat, and also action in
connection with these (or for the sake of the Supreme) is called Sat.
Ashraddhayaa hutam dattam tapastaptam kritam cha yat;
Asadityuchyate paartha na cha tatpretya no iha.
28. Whatever is sacrificed, given or performed, and whatever austerity is practised without
faith, it is called Asat, O Arjuna! It is naught here or hereafter (after death).
COMMENTARY: Whatever sacrifice, austerity or charity done without being dedicated
to the Lord will be of no avail to the doer in this earthly life here or in the life beyond hereafter.
Hari Om Tat Sat
Iti Srimad Bhagavadgeetaasoopanishatsu Brahmavidyaayaam
Yogashaastre Sri Krishnaarjunasamvaade
Shraddhaatrayavibhaagayogo Naama Saptadasho’dhyaayah
Thus in the Upanishads of the glorious Bhagavad Gita, the science of the Eternal, the
scripture of Yoga, the dialogue between Sri Krishna and Arjuna, ends the seventeenth discourse
entitled:
“The Yoga of the Division of the Threefold Faith”
XVIII
THE YOGA OF LIBERATION BY RENUNCIATION
Summary of Eighteenth Discourse
The eighteenth discourse, which is the conclusion of the divine discourse of Lord Krishna,
is in many ways a summary of the foregoing portions of the Gita. It covers in brief numerous
important points dealt with in the previous discourses. Here you behold the ultimate result or effect
of the Lord’s discourse to Arjuna. The drama of Arjuna’s utter despondency and breakdown is
finally resolved in triumphant self-mastery, strength and bold resoluteness. Its central message
emerges as an assurance that in and through the performance of one’s respective duties in life one
can qualify for the highest liberation, if one performs actions by renouncing egoism and attachment
and surrendering all desire for selfish, personal gain. By regarding the performance of your duties
as worship offered to God, you obtain the Grace of the Lord and attain the eternal One.
Significantly, this discourse opens with a question by Arjuna asking what is true Sannyasa
and true Tyaga (renunciation). In reply to this important and crucial query, the blessed Lord makes
it clear to us that real Sannyasa or renunciation lies in renunciation of selfish actions, and even more
in the renunciation of the desire or greed for the fruits of any action. Very clearly we are told that
selfless and virtuous actions, and actions conducive to the welfare of others should not be
abandoned. You must engage yourself in performing such action but renouncing attachment and
124