BHAGAVAD GITA
35. Among the hymns also I am the Brihatsaman; among metres Gayatri am I; among the
months I am Margasirsa; among seasons (I am) the flowery season.
Dyootam cchalayataamasmi tejastejaswinaamaham;
Jayo’smi vyavasaayo’smi sattwam sattwavataamaham.
36. I am the gambling of the fraudulent; I am the splendour of the splendid; I am victory; I
am determination (of those who are determined); I am the goodness of the good.
COMMENTARY: Of the various methods of defrauding others, I am gambling, such as
dice-play. Gambling is My manifestation. I am power in the powerful. I am victory in the
victorious. I am effort in those who make that effort.
Vrishneenaam vaasudevo’smi paandavaanaam dhananjayah;
Muneenaamapyaham vyaasah kaveenaamushanaa kavih.
37. Among Vrishnis I am Vasudeva; among the Pandavas I am Arjuna; among sages I am
Vyasa; among poets I am Usana, the poet.
Dando damayataamasmi neetirasmi jigeeshataam;
Maunam chaivaasmi guhyaanaam jnaanam jnaanavataamaham.
38. Among the punishers I am the sceptre; among those who seek victory I am
statesmanship; and also among secrets I am silence; knowledge among knowers I am.
Yachchaapi sarvabhootaanaam beejam tadahamarjuna;
Na tadasti vinaa yatsyaanmayaa bhootam charaacharam.
39. And whatever is the seed of all beings, that also am I, O Arjuna! There is no being,
whether moving or unmoving, that can exist without Me.
COMMENTARY: I am the primeval seed from which all creation has come into existence.
I am the seed of everything. I am the Self of everything. Nothing can exist without Me. Everything
is of My nature. I am the soul of everything.
Naanto’sti mama divyaanaam vibhooteenaam parantapa;
Esha tooddeshatah prokto vibhootervistaro mayaa.
40. There is no end to My divine glories, O Arjuna, but this is a brief statement by Me of the
particulars of My divine glories!
Yadyad vibhootimat sattwam shreemadoorjitameva vaa;
Tattadevaavagaccha twam mama tejom’shasambhavam.
41. Whatever being there is that is glorious, prosperous or powerful, that know thou to be a
manifestation of a part of My splendour.
83