BHAGAVAD GITA
55. He who does all actions for Me, who looks upon Me as the Supreme, who is devoted to
Me, who is free from attachment, who bears enmity towards no creature, he comes to Me, O
Arjuna!
COMMENTARY: This is the essence of the whole teaching of the Gita. He who practises
this teaching attains supreme bliss and immortality. Such a one realises Him and enters into His
Being, becoming completely one with Him. This verse contains the summary of the entire Gita
philosophy.
Hari Om Tat Sat
Iti Srimad Bhagavadgeetaasoopanishatsu Brahmavidyaayaam
Yogashaastre Sri Krishnaarjunasamvaade
Vishwaroopa Darshanayogo Naama Ekaadasho’dhyaayah
Thus in the Upanishads of the glorious Bhagavad Gita, the science of the Eternal, the
scripture of Yoga, the dialogue between Sri Krishna and Arjuna, ends the eleventh discourse
entitled:
“The Yoga of the Vision of the Cosmic Form”
XII
THE YOGA OF DEVOTION
Summary of Twelfth Discourse
The twelfth discourse indicates that the path of devotion is easier than the path of
knowledge. In this path the aspirant worships God in His Cosmic Form of the Supreme Personality.
He develops a loving relationship with Him, adores Him, remembers Him and chants His glories
and Name. He thus effects union with the Lord and attains not only His formless aspect but also the
Lord as the manifest universe.
The path of knowledge, whereby the aspirant meditates on the formless Brahman, is more
difficult as he has to give up his attachment to the body from the very beginning. He has to have
dispassion for the things of the world.
How to practise devotion? Krishna asks Arjuna to fix his entire mind on Him. As often as
the mind wanders it should be brought back to the Lord. If this process of concentration is difficult
he should dedicate all his actions to Him, feeling that it is His power that activates everything. If this
also is beyond his ability, he should offer all his actions to the Lord, abandoning the desire for their
fruits. He should take complete refuge in Him. The devotee who surrenders himself to the Lord
attains perfect peace.
The Lord goes on to describe the qualities that a true devotee possesses. He neither attaches
himself to anything nor does he have any aversion to things. He has a balanced mind under all
95