ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  588  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
I am forever a sacrifice to that Guru, who has led me to serve the Lord. That Beloved 
True Guru is always with me; wherever I may be, He will save me. Most blessed is that 
Guru, who imparts understanding of the Lord. O Nanak, I am a sacrifice to the Guru, 
who  has  given  me  the  Lord‟s  Name,  and  fulfilled  the  desires  of  my  mind.    ||  5  ||   
SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  Consumed by desire, the world is burning and dying; burning 
and burning, it screams. But if it meets with the cooling and soothing True Guru, it does 
not burn any longer. O Nanak, without the Name, and without contemplating the Word 
of the Shabad, no one becomes fearless.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  Wearing ceremonial 
robes,  the  fire  is  not  quenched,  and  the  mind  is  filled  with  anxiety.  Destroying  the 
snake‟s hole, the snake is not killed; it is just like doing deeds without a Guru. Serving 
the Giver, the True Guru, the Word of the Shabad comes to abide in the mind. The 
mind  and  body  are  cooled  and  soothed;  peace  ensues,  and  the  fire  of  desire  is 
quenched. The greatest comforts and lasting peace are obtained, when one eradicates 
selfishness from within. He alone becomes a detached Gurmukh, who lovingly focuses 
his awareness on the True Lord. Anxiety does not affect him at all; he is satisfied and 
satiated with the Name of the Lord. O Nanak, without the Naam, no one is saved; they 
are utterly ruined by egotism.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  Those who meditate on the Name of 
the Lord, Har, Har, obtain all peace and comforts. Fruitful is the entire life of those, who 
feel hunger for the Name of the Lord in their minds. Those who worship and adore the 
Lord through the Guru‟s Word, forget all their pain and suffering. Those Gursikhs are 
good Saints, who care for nothing other than the Lord. Blessed, blessed is their Guru, 
whose mouth tastes the Ambrosial Fruit of the Lord.  || 6 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  
In the Dark Age of Kali Yuga, the Messenger of Death is the enemy of life, but he acts 
according to the Lord‟s Command. Those who are protected by the Guru are saved, 
while  the  self-willed  manmukhs  receive  their  punishment.  The  world  is  in  bondage, 
under the control of the Messenger of Death; no one can hold him back. So serve the 
One who created Death; become Gurmukh, and no pain will touch you. O Nanak, Death 
serves the Gurmukhs; the True Lord abides in their minds.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  This 
body  is  filled  with  disease;  without  the  Word  of  the  Shabad,  the  painful  disease  of 
egotism does not depart. Meeting the True Guru, one becomes immaculately pure, and 
the Lord‟s Name comes to dwell within the mind. O Nanak, meditating on the Naam, the 
Name  of  the  Peace-Giving  Lord,  one‟s  pains  are  automatically  forgotten.    ||  2  ||   
PAUREE:  I am forever a sacrifice to the Guru, who has taught me about God, the Life 
of the World. I am every bit a sacrifice to the Guru, who has spoken the Name of the 
Lord. I am a sacrifice to the Guru, who has totally cured me of the fatal disease of 
egotism. Glorious and great are the virtues of the Guru, who has eradicated evil, and 
instructed me in virtue.  