ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 1283 ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
The Gurmukh reflects on the self, lovingly attached to the True Lord. O Nanak, whom 
can we ask? He Himself is the Great Giver.  || 10 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  This 
world  is  a  sparrow-hawk;  let  no one  be  deluded by doubt. This sparrow-hawk is an 
animal;  it  has  no  understanding  at  all.  The  Name  of  the  Lord  is  Ambrosial  Nectar; 
drinking it in, thirst is quenched. O Nanak, those Gurmukhs who drink it in shall never 
again be afflicted by thirst.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  Malaar is a calming and soothing 
raga; meditating on the Lord brings peace and tranquility. When the Dear Lord grants 
His Grace, then the rain falls on all the people of the world. From this rain, all creatures 
find the ways and means to live, and the earth is embellished. O Nanak, this world is all 
water; everything came from water. By Guru‟s Grace, a rare few realize the Lord; such 
humble beings are liberated forever.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  O True and Independent Lord 
God, You alone are my Lord and Master. You Yourself are everything; who else is of 
any account? False is the pride of man. True is Your glorious greatness. Coming and 
going in reincarnation, the beings and species of the world came into being. But if the 
mortal serves his True Guru, his coming into the world is judged to be worthwhile. And 
if he eradicates eogtism from within himself, then  how can he be judged? The self-
willed manmukh is lost in the darkness of emotional attachment, like the man lost in the 
wilderness. Countless sins are erased, by even a tiny particle of the Lord‟s Name.  || 11 
||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  O sparrow-hawk, you do not know the Mansion of your 
Lord and Master‟s Presence. Offer your prayers to see this Mansion. You speak as you 
please,  but  your  speech  is  not  accepted.  Your  Lord  and  Master  is  the  Great  Giver; 
whatever  you  desire,  you  shall  receive  from  Him.  Not  only  the  thirst  of  the  poor 
sparrow-hawk, but the thirst of the whole world is quenched.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  
The night is wet with dew; the sparrow-hawk sings the True Name with intuitive ease. 
This water is my very soul; without water, I cannot survive. Through the Word of the 
Guru‟s Shabad, this water is obtained, and egotism is eradicated from within. O Nanak, 
I cannot live without Him, even for a moment; the True Guru has led me to meet Him.  
|| 2 ||   PAUREE:  There are countless worlds and nether regions; I cannot calculate 
their number. You are the Creator, the Lord of the Universe; You create it, and You 
destroy it. The 8.4 million species of beings  issued forth  from You. Some are called 
kings, emperors and nobles. Some claim to be bankers and accumulate wealth, but in 
duality they lose their honor. Some are givers, and some are beggars; God is above the 
heads of all. Without the Name, they are vulgar, dreadful and wretched. Falsehood shall 
not last, O Nanak; whatever the True Lord does, comes to pass.  || 12 ||   SHALOK,  
THIRD  MEHL:    O  sparrow-hawk,  the  virtuous  soul-bride  attains  the  Mansion  of  her 
Lord‟s  Presence;  the  unworthy,  unvirtuous  one  is  far  away.  Deep  within  your  inner 
being,  the  Lord  abides.  The  Gurmukh  beholds  Him  ever-present.  When  the  Lord 
bestows His Glance of Grace, the mortal no longer weeps and wails.  