ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  551  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
He Himself is the water, He Himself gives the tooth-pick, and He Himself offers the 
mouthwash. He Himself calls and seats the congregation, and He Himself bids them 
goodbye. One whom the Lord Himself blesses with His Mercy — the Lord inspires him 
to obey the Hukam of His Command.  || 6 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  Religious rituals 
are all just entanglements; bad and good are bound up with them. Possessiveness and 
emotional attachment are more bonds; children and spouse are entanglements as well. 
Wherever I look, I see the noose of attachment to Maya. O Nanak, without the True 
Name, the world is engrossed in blind dealings.  || 1 ||   FOURTH MEHL:  The blind 
receive the Divine Light, when they merge with the Will of the True Guru. They break 
their bonds and dwell in Truth, and the darkness of ignorance is dispelled. They see 
that everything belongs to the One who created and fashioned the body. Nanak seeks 
the Sanctuary of the Creator; the Creator preserves his honor.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  When 
the Creator, sitting all by Himself, created the Universe, he did not consult with any of 
His servants. So what can anyone take, and what can anyone give, since He did not 
create any other like Himself? Then, after forming the Universe, the Creator blessed all 
with His blessings. He Himself instructs us in His service; as Gurmukh, we drink in His 
Ambrosial  Nectar.  He  Himself  is  formless,  and  He  Himself  is  formed;  whatever  He 
Himself does, comes to pass.  || 7 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  The Gurmukhs serve 
God forever; night and day, they are intuitively absorbed in the Love of the True One. 
They are in bliss forever, singing the Glorious Praises of the True Lord; in this world and 
in the next, they keep Him clasped to their hearts. Their Beloved dwells deep within; 
the Creator pre-ordained this karma. O Nanak, He blends them into Himself; He Himself 
showers His Mercy upon them.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  By merely talking and speaking, 
He is not found. Night and day, sing His Glorious Praises forever. Without His Grace, no 
one finds Him; many have died barking and bewailing. When the mind and body are 
drenched with the Word of the Guru‟s Shabad, the Lord Himself comes to dwell in the 
mind. O Nanak, by His Grace, He is found; He unites us in His Union.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  
He Himself is the Vedas, the Puraanas and all the Shaastras; He Himself recites them, 
and He Himself is pleased. He Himself sits down to worship, and He Himself creates the 
world.  He  Himself  is  the householder, and He Himself is the renunciate; He Himself 
speaks the Unspoken. He Himself is all goodness, and He Himself causes us to act; He 
Himself remains detached. He Himself grants pleasure and pain; the Creator Himself 
bestows His blessings.  || 8 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  O Shaykh, renounce your 
violent nature; live in the Fear of God and give up your madness. Through the Fear of 
the Guru, many have been saved; in this fear, you shall find the Fearless One. Pierce 
your stubborn mind with the Word of the Shabad; let peace and tranquility come to 
abide in your mind. If good deeds are done in this state of peace, they are approved by 
the Lord and Master. O Nanak, no one has ever found God through sex and anger — 
go, and ask any spiritual teacher.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:   