ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  576  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
I ask for the Lord‟s spiritual wisdom, and the Lord‟s sublime sermon; through the Name 
of the Lord, I have come to know His value and His state. The Creator has made my 
whole life fruitful; I chant the Name of the Lord. The Lord‟s humble servant begs for the 
Lord‟s Name, for the Lord‟s Praises, and for devotional worship of the Lord God. Says 
servant  Nanak,  listen,  O  Saints:  devotional  worship  of  the  Lord,  the  Lord  of  the 
Universe, is good and sublime.  || 1 ||   The golden body is adorned with the saddle of 
gold. It is adorned with the jewel of the Name of the Lord, Har, Har. Adorned with the 
jewel of the Naam, one obtains the Lord of the Universe; he meets the Lord and sings 
the Glorious Praises of the Lord, obtaining all sorts of comforts. He obtains the Word of 
the Guru‟s Shabad, and meditates on the Name of the Lord; by great good fortune, he 
assumes the color of the Lord‟s Love. He meets his Lord and Master, the Inner-knower, 
the Searcher of hearts; His body is ever-new, and His color is ever-fresh. Nanak chants 
and realizes the Naam; he begs for the Name of the Lord, the Lord God.  || 2 ||   The 
Guru  has  placed  the  reins  in  the  mouth  of  the  body-horse.  The  mind-elephant  is 
overpowered by the Word of the Guru‟s Shabad. The bride obtains the supreme status, 
as her mind is brought under control; she is the beloved of her Husband Lord. Deep 
within her inner being, she is in love with her Lord. In His home, she is so beautiful — 
she is the bride of her Lord God. Attuned to the Lord‟s Love, she is intuitively absorbed 
in bliss; she obtains the Lord God, Har, Har. Servant Nanak, the Lord‟s slave, says that 
only the very fortunate meditate on the Lord, Har, Har.  || 3 ||   The body is the horse, 
which one rides to the Lord. Meeting the True Guru, one sings the songs of joy. Sing 
the songs of joy to the Lord, serve the Name of the Lord, and become the servant of 
His servants. Go and enter the Mansion of God‟s Presence, and lovingly enjoy the Lord‟s 
Love. I sing the  Glorious Praises of the Lord, so pleasing to my mind; following the 
Guru‟s Teachings, I meditate on the Lord within my mind. The Lord has showered His 
Mercy upon servant Nanak; mounting the body-horse, he has found the Lord.  || 4 || 2 
|| 6 ||    
 
RAAG WADAHANS,  FIFTH MEHL,  CHHANT,  FOURTH HOUSE:   
O U C G B G T G
NE  NIVERSAL  REATOR  OD.   Y THE  RACE OF THE  RUE  URU:   
Meeting the Guru, I have found my Beloved Lord. I have made this body and mind a 
sacrifice, a sacrificial offering to the Lord. Dedicating my body and mind, I have crossed 
over  the  terrifying  world-ocean,  and  shaken  off  the  fear  of  death.  Drinking  in  the 
Ambrosial  Nectar,  I  have  become  immortal;  my  comings  and  goings  have  ceased.  I 
have found that home of celestial Samaadhi; the Name of the Lord is my only Support. 
Says Nanak, I enjoy peace and pleasure; I bow in reverence to the Perfect Guru.  || 1 ||   
Listen, O my friend and companion — the Guru has given the Mantra of the Shabad, 
the True Word of God. Meditating on this True Shabad, I sing the songs of joy, and my 
mind is rid of anxiety. I have found that God, who never leaves; forever and ever, He 
sits with me.  