ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  555  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
O Dear Lord, everyone eats whatever You give — all are subservient to You. One who 
praises You obtains everything, as You grant Your Grace, O Immaculate Lord. He alone 
is a true banker and trader, who loads the merchandise of the wealth of Your Name, O 
Lord. O Saints, let everyone praise the Lord, who has destroyed the pile of the love of 
duality.  || 16 ||   SHALOK:  Kabeer, the world is dying — dying to death, but no one 
knows how to truly die. Whoever dies — let him die such a death, that he shall never 
have to die again.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  What do I know? How will I die? What sort of 
death will it be? If I don‟t forget the Lord and Master from my mind, then death will be 
easy. The world is terrified of death; everyone longs to live. By Guru‟s Grace, one who 
dies while yet alive, understands the Hukam of the Lord‟s Command. O Nanak, one who 
dies such a death, lives forever.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  When the Lord Master Himself 
becomes merciful, the Lord Himself causes His Name to be chanted. He Himself leads 
us to meet the True Guru, and blesses us with peace. His servant is pleasing to the 
Lord. He Himself preserves the honor of His servants; He makes others fall at the feet 
of His devotees. The Righteous Judge of Dharma is the creation of the Lord; he does 
not even approach the humble servant of the Lord. One who is dear to the Lord, is dear 
to all; a great many others come and go in vain.  || 17 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  
The whole world wanders around chanting, “Raam, Raam, Lord, Lord”, but the Lord 
cannot  be  found  like  this.  He  is  inaccessible,  unfathomable  and  utterly  great;  He  is 
unweighable,  and  cannot  be  weighed.  No  one  can  evaluate  Him;  He  cannot  be 
purchased at any price. Through the Word of the Guru‟s Shabad, His mystery is known; 
in this way, He comes to dwell in the mind. O Nanak, He Himself is infinite; by Guru‟s 
Grace,  He  is  known  to  be  permeating  everywhere.  He  Himself  comes  to  blend,  and 
having blended, remains blended.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  O mind, this is the wealth of 
the Naam; it brings peace, forever and ever. It never brings any loss at all; through it, 
one earns profits forever. Eating and spending it, it never decreases; He continues to 
give, forever and ever. One who has no skepticism at all, never suffers humiliation. O 
Nanak, the Gurmukh obtains it, when the Lord bestows His Glance of Grace.  || 2 ||   
PAUREE:  He Himself is deep within all hearts, and He Himself is outside as well. He 
Himself is prevailing unmanifest, and He Himself is manifest as well. For thirty-six ages, 
He  created  the  darkness,  abiding  in  the  void.  There  were  no  Vedas,  Puraanas  or 
Shaastras there; only the Lord Himself existed. He Himself sat in the absolute trance, 
withdrawn  from  everything.  Only  He  Himself  knows  His  state;  He  Himself  is  the 
unfathomable ocean.  || 18 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  In egotism, the world is dead; 
it dies and dies, again and again.  