ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  552  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
The self-willed manmukhs are emotionally attached to Maya — they have no love for 
the  Naam.  They  practice  falsehood,  gather  falsehood,  and  make  falsehood  their 
sustenance. They collect the poisonous wealth of Maya, and then die; in the end, it is 
all reduced to ashes. They practice religious rituals, purity and austere self-discipline, 
but  within,  there  is  only  greed  and  corruption.  O  Nanak,  whatever  the  self-willed 
manmukhs do is not acceptable; in the Court of the Lord, they are dishonored.  || 2 ||   
PAUREE:  He Himself created the four sources of creation, and He Himself fashioned 
speech; He Himself created the worlds and solar systems. He Himself is the ocean, and 
He Himself is the sea; He Himself puts the pearls in it. By His Grace, He enables some 
to find them — those whom He makes Gurmukh. He Himself is the terrifying world-
ocean, and He Himself is the boat; He Himself is the boatman, and He Himself ferries 
us across. The Creator Himself acts, and causes us to act; no one else can equal You, 
Lord.  || 9 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  Service to the True Guru is fruitful, if one does 
so with a sincere mind. The treasure of the Naam is obtained, and the mind comes to 
be free of anxiety. The pains of birth and death are eradicated, and the mind is rid of 
egotism and possessiveness. One achieves the ultimate state, and remains absorbed in 
the True One. O Nanak, the True Guru comes and meets those who have such pre-
ordained destiny.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  The True Guru is attuned to the Naam; He is 
the boat in this Dark Age of Kali Yuga. One who becomes Gurmukh crosses over; the 
True Lord abides within him. He remembers the Naam, he gathers in the Naam, and he 
obtains honor through the Naam. Nanak has found the True Guru; by His Grace, the 
Name is obtained.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  He Himself is the Philosopher‟s Stone, He Himself 
is  the  metal,  and  He  Himself  is  transformed  into  gold.  He  Himself  is  the  Lord  and 
Master, He Himself is the servant, and He Himself is the Destroyer of sins. He Himself 
enjoys every heart; the Lord Master Himself is the basis of all illusion. He Himself is the 
discerning one, and He Himself is the Knower of all; He Himself breaks the bonds of the 
Gurmukhs. Servant Nanak is not satisfied by merely praising You, O Creator Lord; You 
are the Great Giver of peace.  || 10 ||   SHALOK,  FOURTH MEHL:  Without serving the 
True Guru, the deeds which are done are only chains binding the soul. Without serving 
the  True  Guru,  they  find  no  place  of  rest.  They  die,  only  to  be  born  again  —  they 
continue coming and going. Without serving the True Guru, their speech is insipid. They 
do not enshrine the Naam, the Name of the Lord, in the mind. O Nanak, without serving 
the  True  Guru,  they  are  bound  and  gagged,  and  beaten  in  the  City  of  Death;  they 
depart with blackened faces.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  Some wait upon and serve the 
True Guru; they embrace love for the Lord‟s Name. O Nanak, they reform their lives, 
and save their generations as well.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  He Himself is the school, He 
Himself is the teacher, and He Himself brings the students to be taught. He Himself is 
the father, He Himself is the mother, and He Himself makes the children wise. In one 
place, He teaches them to read and understand everything, while in another place, He 
Himself makes them ignorant.  