ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 1392 ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
The lion, the son of Pheru, is Guru Angad, the Guru of the World; Lehnaa practices Raja 
Yoga, the Yoga of meditation and success.  || 5 ||   Your mind remains lovingly attuned 
to the Lord forever; You do whatever you desire. Like the tree heavy with fruit, You 
bow in humility, and endure the pain of it; You are pure of thought. You realize this 
reality, that the Lord is All-pervading, Unseen and Amazing. With intuitive ease, You 
send forth the rays of the Ambrosial Word of power. You have risen to the state of the 
certified Guru; you grasp truth and contentment. Kal proclaims, that whoever attains 
the Blessed Vision of the Darshan of Lehnaa, meets with the Lord.  || 6 ||   My mind 
has faith, that the Prophet has given You access to the Profound Lord. Your body has 
been purged of the deadly poison; You drink the Ambrosial Nectar deep within. Your 
Heart has blossomed forth in awareness of the Unseen Lord, who has infused His Power 
throughout  the  ages.  O  True  Guru,  You  are  intuitively  absorbed  in  Samaadhi,  with 
continuity  and  equality.  You  are  open-minded  and  large-hearted,  the  Destroyer  of 
poverty; seeing You, sins are afraid. Says Kal, I lovingly, continually, intuitively chant 
the Praises of Lehnaa with my tongue.  || 7 ||   The Naam, the Name of the Lord, is our 
medicine; the Naam is our support; the Naam is the peace of Samaadhi. The Naam is 
the insignia which embellishes us forever. Kal is imbued with the Love of the Naam, the 
Naam which is the fragrance of gods and human beings. Whoever obtains the Naam, 
the  Philosopher‟s  Stone,  becomes  the  embodiment  of  Truth,  manifest  and  radiant 
throughout the world. Gazing upon the Blessed Vision of the Guru‟s Darshan, it is as if 
one has bathed at the sixty-eight sacred shrines of pilgrimage.  || 8 ||   The True Name 
is the sacred shrine, the True Name is the cleansing bath of purification and food. The 
True Name is eternal love; chant the True Name, and be embellished. The True Name 
is obtained through the Word of the Guru‟s Shabad; the Sangat, the Holy Congregation, 
is fragrant with the True Name. Kal the poet utters the Praises of the one whose self-
discipline is the True Name, and whose fast is the True Name. Gazing upon the Blessed 
Vision of the Guru‟s Darshan, one‟s life is approved and certified in the True Name.  || 9 
||   When You bestow Your Ambrosial Glance of Grace, You eradicate all wickedness, 
sin  and  filth.  Sexual  desire,  anger,  greed  and  emotional  attachment  —  You  have 
overcome  all  these  powerful  passions.  Your  mind  is  filled  with  peace  forever;  You 
banish the sufferings of the world. The Guru is the river of the nine treasures, washing 
off the dirt of our lives. So speaks Tal the poet: serve the Guru, day and night, with 
intuitive love and affection. Gazing upon the Blessed Vision of the Guru, the pains of 
death and rebirth are taken away.  || 10 ||    
SWAIYAS IN PRAISE OF THE THIRD MEHL:   
O U C G B G T G
NE  NIVERSAL  REATOR  OD.   Y THE  RACE OF THE  RUE  URU:   
Dwell  upon  that  Primal  Being,  the  True  Lord  God;  in  this  world,  His  One  Name  is 
Undeceivable.  He  carries  His  devotees  across the terrifying world-ocean; meditate in 
remembrance on His Naam, Supreme and Sublime. Nanak delighted in the Naam; He 
established Lehnaa as Guru, who was imbued with all supernatural spiritual powers. So 
speaks Kal the poet: the glory of the wise, sublime and humble Amar Daas is spread 
throughout the world. His Praises radiate throughout the world, like the rays of the sun, 
and the branches of the tree.  