ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  583  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
He blends all with Himself.  || 2 ||   Those who have realized their Husband Lord — I go 
and ask those Saints about Him. Renouncing ego, I serve them; thus I meet my True 
Husband Lord with intuitive ease. The True Husband Lord comes to meet the soul-bride 
who practices Truth; she is attuned to the True Word of the Shabad. She shall never 
become a widow; she shall always be a happy bride. Deep within her being, she dwells 
in  the  celestial  bliss  of  Samaadhi.  Her  Husband  Lord  is  permeating  and  pervading 
everywhere;  beholding  Him  ever-present,  she  enjoys  His  Love  with  intuitive  ease. 
Those who have realized their Husband Lord — I go and ask those Saints about Him.  || 
3 ||   The separated ones also meet with their Husband Lord, if they fall at the feet of 
the True Guru. The True Guru is forever merciful; through the Word of His Shabad, 
demerits  are  burnt  away.  Burning  away  her  demerits  through  the  Shabad,  the soul-
bride eradicates her love of duality; she is attuned to the True, True Lord. Through the 
True Shabad, everlasting peace is obtained, and egotism and doubt are dispelled. The 
Immaculate Husband Lord is forever the Giver of peace; O Nanak, through the Word of 
His Shabad, He is met. The separated ones also meet with their Husband Lord, if they 
fall at the feet of the True Guru.  || 4 || 1 ||   WADAHANS,  THIRD MEHL:  Listen, O 
brides of the Lord: serve your Husband Lord, and contemplate the Word of His Shabad. 
The worthless bride does not know her Husband Lord — she is deluded; forgetting her 
Husband Lord, she weeps and wails. She weeps, thinking of her Husband Lord, and she 
constantly  cherishes  His  virtues;  her  Husband  Lord  does  not  die,  or  go  away.  As 
Gurmukh, she knows Him; through the Word of His Shabad, He is realized. Through 
True  Love,  she  merges  with  Him.  She  who  does  not  know  her  Husband  Lord,  the 
Architect of karma, is deluded by falsehood — she herself is false. Listen, O brides of 
the Lord: serve your Husband Lord, and contemplate the Word of His Shabad.  || 1 ||   
He Himself created the whole world; the world comes and goes. The love of Maya has 
ruined the world; people die, to be re-born, over and over again. People die to be re-
born, over and over again, while their sins steadily increase; without spiritual wisdom, 
they are deluded. Without the Shabad, the Husband Lord is not found; the worthless, 
false bride wastes her life away, weeping and wailing. He is my Beloved Husband Lord, 
the Life of the World — for whom should I weep? They alone weep, who forget their 
Husband Lord. He Himself created the whole world; the world comes and goes.  || 2 ||   
That Husband Lord is True, forever True; He does not die or go away. The ignorant 
soul-bride wanders in delusion; in the love of duality, she sits like a widow. She sits like 
a widow, in the love of duality; infatuated with Maya, she suffers in pain. She grows 
old, and her body withers away. Whatever has come, shall all pass away; through the 
love of duality, all suffer in pain. They do not see the Messenger of Death; they long for 
Maya, and their consciousness is attached to greed. That Husband Lord is True, forever 
True; He does not die or go away.  || 3 ||   Some weep and wail, separated from their 
Husband Lord; the blind ones do not know that their Husband is with them. By Guru‟s 
Grace,  they  meet  their  True  Husband,  and  cherish  Him  always  deep  within.  She 
cherishes her Husband deep within herself — He is always with her, but the self-willed 
manmukhs think that He is far away. This body rolls in the dust, and is totally useless; it 
does not realize the Presence of its Lord and Master.  