ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  582  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
Death hovers over its head, and makes it cry.  || 1 ||   Come, O Baba, and Siblings of 
Destiny — let‟s join together; take me in your arms, and bless me with your prayers. O 
Baba, union with the True One cannot be broken; bless me with your prayers for union 
with my Beloved. Bless me with your prayers, that I may worship God with devotion; for 
those already united with Him, what more is there to unite? Some have wandered away 
from the Name of God — they have lost the Path. The Word of the Guru‟s Shabad is the 
true game. Do not go on the path of Death; remain absorbed in the Shabad, the true 
form throughout the ages. Through good fortune, we meet such friends and relatives, 
who meet with the Guru, and escape the noose of Death.  || 2 ||   O Baba, we come 
into the world naked, into pain and pleasure, according to the record of our account. 
The call of our pre-ordained destiny cannot be altered; it follows from our past actions. 
The  True  Lord  sits  and  writes  of  ambrosial  nectar  and  bitter  poison;  as  the  Lord 
attaches us, so are we attached. The charmer, Maya, has worked her charms, and the 
multi-colored  thread  is  around  everyone‟s  neck.  Through  shallow  intellect,  the  mind 
becomes shallow, and one eats the fly, along with the sweets. Contrary to custom, he 
comes into the Dark Age of Kali Yuga naked, and naked he is bound down and sent 
away again.  || 3 ||   O Baba, weep and mourn if you must; the beloved soul is bound 
and driven off. The pre-ordained record of destiny cannot be erased; the summons has 
come  from  the  Lord‟s  Court.  The  messenger  comes,  when  it  pleases  God,  and  the 
mourners begin to mourn. Sons, brothers, nephews and very dear friends weep and 
wail. Let him weep, who weeps in the Fear of God, cherishing the virtues of God — no 
one dies with the dead. O Nanak, throughout the ages, they are known as wise, who 
weep, remembering the True One.  || 4 || 5 ||    
 
WADAHANS,  THIRD MEHL:   
O U C G B G T G
NE  NIVERSAL  REATOR  OD.   Y THE  RACE OF THE  RUE  URU:   
Praise God, the True Lord; He is all-powerful to do all things. The soul-bride shall never 
be a widow; she shall never suffer sorrow. She shall never suffer — night and day, she 
enjoys pleasures; that soul-bride merges in the Mansion of the Lord‟s Presence. She 
knows  her  Beloved,  the  Architect  of  karma,  and  she  speaks  words  of  ambrosial 
sweetness.  The  virtuous  soul-brides  dwell  on  the  virtues  of  God;  they  keep  their 
Husband Lord in their remembrance, and they never suffer separation from Him. So 
praise your True Husband Lord, who is all-powerful to do all things.  || 1 ||   The True 
Lord and Master is realized through the Word of His Shabad; He blends all with Himself. 
That soul-bride is imbued with the Love of her Husband Lord, who banishes her self-
conceit from within. Eradicating self-conceit from within, death shall not consume her 
again; as Gurmukh, she knows the One. The desires of the soul-bride are fulfilled; deep 
within, she is drenched in His Love. She meets the Great Giver, the Life of the World. 
Imbued with love for the Shabad, she is intoxicated with youth; she merges into the 
very being of her Husband Lord. The True Lord and Master is realized through the Word 
of His Shabad.  