ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  570  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
One‟s virtues merge into the virtues of the Lord as one comes to understand one‟s own 
self, earning the profit of devotional worship in this world. Without devotion, there is no 
peace; through duality, one‟s honor is lost, but under Guru‟s Instruction, one is blessed 
with the Support of the Naam. The profit of the merchandise of the Naam is earned 
forever, by those whom the Lord employs in this trade. They purchase the jewel, the 
invaluable treasure, when the True Guru gives this understanding.  || 1 ||   Emotional 
attachment to Maya is totally painful; this is a bad bargain. Speaking falsehood, one 
eats  poison;  evil  is  greatly  increasing.  Evil  is  greatly  increasing  in  this  world  of 
skepticism; without the Name, one‟s honor is lost. Reading and studying, the religious 
scholars  argue  and  debate;  but  without  understanding,  there  is  no  peace.  Their 
comings  and  goings  never  end;  emotional  attachment  to  Maya  is  dear  to  them. 
Emotional attachment to Maya is totally painful; this is a bad bargain.  || 2 ||   The 
counterfeit  and  the  genuine  are  all  appraised  in  the  Court  of  the  True  Lord.  The 
counterfeit are cast out of the Court, and they stand there, crying in misery. They stand 
there, crying in misery — the foolish, idiotic, self-willed manmukhs have wasted their 
lives. Maya is the poison which has deluded the world; it does not love the Naam, the 
Name of the Lord. The self-willed manmukhs hate the Saints; they harvest only pain in 
this  world.  The  counterfeit  and  the  genuine  are  appraised  in  that True Court of the 
Lord.  || 3 ||   He Himself acts; who else should I ask? No one else can do anything. As 
He  pleases,  He  engages  us;  such  is  His  glorious  greatness.  Such  is  His  glorious 
greatness — He Himself causes all to act; no one is a warrior or a coward. The Life of 
the world, the Great Giver, the Architect of karma — He Himself grants forgiveness. By 
Guru‟s  Grace,  self-conceit  is  eradicated,  O  Nanak,  and  through  the  Naam,  honor  is 
obtained. He Himself acts; who else should I ask? No one else can do anything.  || 4 || 
4 ||   WADAHANS,  THIRD MEHL:  The True merchandise is the Name of the Lord. This 
is the true trade. Under Guru‟s Instruction, we trade in the Lord‟s Name; its value is so 
very great. The value of this true trade is so very great; those who are engaged in the 
true trade are very fortunate. Inwardly and outwardly, they are imbued with devotion; 
they enshrine love for the True Name. Those who are blessed with the Lord‟s Glance of 
Grace obtain Truth, and contemplate the Word of the Guru‟s Shabad. O Nanak, those 
who  are  attuned  to  the  Name  find  peace,  dealing  in  Truth.    ||  1  ||      Egotistical 
involvement in Maya is filth; Maya is overflowing with filth. Under Guru‟s Instruction, 
the mind is made pure, and the tongue drinks in the subtle essence of the Lord. The 
tongue drinks in the subtle essence of the Lord, and deep within, the heart is drenched 
with His Love, contemplating the True Word of the Shabad. Deep within, the well of the 
heart  is  overflowing  with  the  Lord‟s  Ambrosial  Nectar;  the  water-carrier  draws  and 
drinks in the water of the Shabad. One who is blessed with the Lord‟s Glance of Grace is 
attuned to the Truth; with his tongue, he chants the Lord‟s Name. O Nanak, those who 
are attuned to the Naam are immaculate. The others are full of the filth of egotism.  || 
2 ||    