ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  543  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
Food, drink and decorations are useless; without my Husband Lord, how can I live? I 
yearn for Him, and desire Him night and day. I cannot live without Him, even for an 
instant. Prays Nanak: O Saint, I am Your slave; by Your Grace, I meet my Husband 
Lord.  || 2 ||   I share a bed with my Beloved, but I do not behold the Blessed Vision of 
His Darshan. I have countless demerits — how can my Husband Lord call me to the 
Mansion of  His Presence? The worthless, dishonored and discarded soul-bride prays: 
“Meet with me, God, O treasure of mercy.” The wall of doubt has been shattered, and 
now  I  sleep  in  peace,  beholding  God,  the  Lord  of  the  nine  treasures,  even  for  an 
instant. If only I could come into the Mansion of my Beloved Lord‟s Presence. Joining 
with  Him, I sing the songs of joy. Prays Nanak, I seek the Sanctuary of the Saints; 
please, reveal to me the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan.  || 3 ||   By the Grace of the 
Saints,  I have found the Lord, Har, Har. My  desires are fulfilled, and my  mind is at 
peace; the fire within has been quenched. Fruitful is that day and beauteous is that 
night, and countless are the joys, celebrations and pleasures. The Lord of the Universe, 
the Beloved Lord of the World, has been revealed. With what tongue can I speak of His 
Glory? Doubt, greed, emotional attachment and corruption are subdued; joining with 
my companions, I sing the songs of joy. Prays Nanak, I meditate on the Saint, who has 
led me to union with the Lord, Har, Har.  || 4 || 2 ||   BIHAAGRAA,  FIFTH MEHL:  
Grant Your Grace, O Guru, O Perfect Supreme Lord God, that I might chant the Naam, 
the Name of the Lord, night and day. I speak the Ambrosial Words of the Guru‟s Bani, 
praising  the  Lord.  Your  Will  seems  so  sweet  to  me,  Lord.  Show  kindness  and 
compassion, O Lord of the Word, Lord of the Universe; without You, I have no other at 
all. Almighty, sublime, infinite and perfect Lord — my soul, body, wealth and mind are 
Yours.  I  am  foolish,  stupid,  masterless,  fickle,  powerless,  lowly  and  ignorant.  Prays 
Nanak,  I  seek  Your  Sanctuary  —  please  save  me  from  coming  and  going  in 
reincarnation.  || 1 ||   In the Sanctuary of the Holy, I have found the Dear Lord; I 
constantly sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord. Applying the dust of the devotees to 
the mind and body, O Dear Lord, all sinners are sanctified. The sinners are sanctified in 
the company of those who have met the Primal Lord of Destiny. Attuned to the Naam, 
the Name of the Lord, they are given the gift of the life of the soul; their gifts increase 
day  by  day.  Wealth,  the  supernatural  spiritual  powers  of  the  Siddhas,  and  the  nine 
treasures come to those who meditate on the Lord, and conquer their own soul. Prays 
Nanak, it is only by great good fortune that the Holy, the Lord‟s companions are found, 
O friends.  || 2 ||   Those who deal in Truth, O Dear Lord, are the perfect bankers. They 
possess the great treasure, O Dear Lord, and they earn the profit of the Lord‟s Praise. 
Sexual desire, anger and greed do not cling to those who are attuned to God. They 
know the One, and they believe in the One; they are intoxicated with the Lord‟s Love. 
They fall at the Feet of the Saints, and seek their Sanctuary; their minds are filled with 
joy. Prays Nanak, those who have the Naam in their laps are the true bankers.  || 3 ||    