ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  568  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
One who, as Gurmukh, enjoys her Husband Lord, O perishable bride, knows Him to be 
all-pervading everywhere. The Husband Lord is all-pervading everywhere; behold Him 
ever-present. Throughout the ages, know Him as the One. The young, innocent bride 
intuitively enjoys her Husband Lord; she meets the Architect of karma. One who tastes 
the sublime essence of the Lord, and chants the sublime Word of the Shabad, remains 
immersed in the Lord‟s Sacred Pool. O Nanak, that soul-bride is pleasing to her Husband 
Lord, who, through the Shabad, remains in His Presence.  || 2 ||   Go and ask the 
happy  soul-brides,  O  perishable  bride,  who  have  eradicated  self-conceit  from  within. 
Those  who  have  not  eradicated  self-conceit,  O  perishable  bride,  do  not  realize  the 
Hukam of their Husband Lord‟s Command. Those who eradicate self-conceit obtain their 
Husband Lord and delight in His Love. Forever attuned to His Love, in perfect poise and 
grace, she repeats His Name night and day. Very fortunate is that bride who focuses 
her consciousness on Him; her Lord‟s Love is so sweet to her. O Nanak, that soul-bride 
who is adorned with Truth is imbued with her Lord‟s Love, in peace and poise.  || 3 ||   
Overcome your egotism, O perishable bride, and walk in the Guru‟s Way. Thus you shall 
enjoy your Husband Lord forever, O perishable bride, and obtain an abode in the home 
of  your  own  inner  being.  Obtaining  an  abode  in  the  home  of  her  inner  being,  she 
vibrates the Word of the Shabad, and is a happy soul-bride forever. The Husband Lord 
is delightful and forever young; night and day, He embellishes His bride. Her Husband 
Lord activates the destiny written on her forehead, and she is adorned with the True 
Shabad. O Nanak, the soul-bride is imbued with the Love of the Lord, when she walks 
according to the Will of the True Guru.  || 4 || 1 ||   WADAHANS,  THIRD MEHL:  All the 
dealings  of  the  Gurmukhs  are  good,  if  they  are  accomplished  with  poise  and  grace. 
Night  and  day,  they  chant  the  Naam,  and  earn  their  profits,  drinking  in  the  subtle 
essence of the Lord. They earn the profit of the subtle essence of the Lord, dwelling on 
the Lord, and chanting the Naam, night and day. They gather in merits, and eliminate 
demerits,  and  become  self-realized.  Through  the  Guru‟s  Teachings,  they  are  blessed 
with glorious greatness; they drink in the essence of the True Word of the Shabad. O 
Nanak, devotional worship of the Lord is a unique experience, but only a few Gurmukhs 
perform it.  || 1 ||   As Gurmukh, plant the crop of the Lord deep within, and let it grow 
in your body-field. Within the home of your own being, enjoy the Lord‟s subtle essence, 
and  earn  profits  in  the  world  beyond.  This  profit  is  earned  in  the  world  beyond  by 
enshrining the Lord within the mind; blessed is this farming and trade. Meditating on 
the  Lord‟s  Name,  and  enshrining  Him  within  the  mind,  the  Guru‟s  Teachings  are 
understood. The self-willed manmukhs have grown weary  of this farming and trade; 
their hunger and thirst will not go away. O Nanak, plant the seed of the Name within 
the mind, and adorn yourself with the True Word of the Shabad.  || 2 ||   Those humble 
beings  engage in the Lord‟s trade, who have the jewel of such pre-ordained destiny 
upon  their  foreheads. Under  Guru‟s Instruction, the mind abides in  the home of the 
self; through the True Word of the Shabad, she becomes unattached. By the destiny 
written  upon  their  foreheads,  they  become  truly  unattached,  and  by  reflective 
meditation, they are imbued with Truth. Without the Naam, the Name of the Lord, the 
whole world is insane; through the Shabad, the ego is conquered. Attached to the True 
Word of the Shabad, wisdom wells up.  