ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  545  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
Take your cleansing bath in the Ambrosial Pool of the Lord, and all your sins shall be 
wiped away, O my mind. Take your cleansing in the Lord of the Universe forever, O 
friends, and the pain of darkness shall be dispelled. Birth and death shall not hold you, 
and the noose of Death shall be cut away. So join the Saadh Sangat, the Company of 
the Holy, and be imbued with the Naam, the Name of the Lord; there, your hopes shall 
be fulfilled. Prays Nanak, shower Your Mercy upon me, Lord, that I might dwell at Your 
Lotus Feet.  || 1 ||   There is bliss and ecstasy there always, and the unstruck celestial 
melody resounds there. Meeting together, the humble Saints sing God‟s Praises, and 
celebrate  His  Victory.  Meeting  together,  the  Saints  sing  the  Praises  of  the  Lord  and 
Master; they are pleasing to the Lord, and drenched with the sublime essence of His 
love and affection. They earn the profit of the Lord, eradicate self-conceit, and meet 
Him, from whom they were separated for so long. Taking them by the arm, He makes 
them His own; God, the One, Inaccessible and Infinite, bestows His kindness. Prays 
Nanak, forever immaculate are those who vibrate and resonate with the True Word of 
the Shabad.  || 2 ||   Listen, O most fortunate ones, to the Ambrosial Bani, the Word of 
the Lord. Only one who has such pre-ordained karma, has it enter into the heart. The 
Unspoken  Speech  is  known  only  by  those  unto  whom  God  grants  His  Grace.  They 
become  immortal,  and  shall  not  die  again;  their  troubles,  disputes  and  pains  are 
dispelled. They find the Sanctuary of the Lord; they do not forsake Him, and do not 
leave. God‟s Love is pleasing to their minds and bodies. Prays Nanak, sing forever the 
Sacred Ambrosial Bani of the Word.  || 3 ||   My mind and body are intoxicated — I 
cannot describe it. From Him I originated, and into Him I shall merge once again. I am 
absorbed into God‟s Light, through and through, like water merging into water. The One 
permeates  the  water,  the  land  and  the  sky  —  I  do  not  see  any  other. He is totally 
permeating the forests, the fields and the three worlds. I cannot express His worth. 
Prays Nanak, He Himself knows — the One who created this creation.  || 4 || 2 || 5 ||   
BIHAAGRAA,  FIFTH MEHL:  The Saints go around, searching for God, the support of 
their breath of life. They lose the strength of their bodies, if they do not merge with 
their Beloved Lord. O God, my Beloved, merge with me — bless me with Your kindness; 
be kind, and attach me to the hem of Your robe. Bless me with Your Name, that I may 
chant it, O Lord and Master; beholding the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan, I live. He is 
almighty, perfect, eternal and unchanging, exalted, unapproachable and infinite. Prays 
Nanak, grant Your Grace, O Beloved of my breath of life, that I may merge with You.  || 
1 ||   I have practiced chanting, intensive meditation and fasting to see Your Feet, Lord. 
But  still,  the  burning  fire  is  not  quenched,  without  the  Sanctuary  of  the  Lord  and 
Master.  O  God,  I  seek  Your  Sanctuary  —  please,  cut  away  my  bonds  and  carry  me 
across the world-ocean. I am helpless, forlorn and worthless — I know nothing at all; 
please do not count up my merits and demerits. The Lord is Merciful to the meek, the 
Sustainer of the world, Beloved, Almighty Cause of causes.  