ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  584  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
O Nanak, that soul-bride is united in Union; she cherishes her Beloved Husband forever, 
deep within. Some weep and wail, separated from their Husband Lord; the blind ones 
do not know that their Husband is with them.  || 4 || 2 ||   WADAHANS,  THIRD MEHL:  
Those who are separated from their Beloved Husband Lord weep and wail, but my True 
Husband Lord is always with me. Those who know that they must depart serve the True 
Guru, and dwell upon the Naam, the Name of the Lord. They dwell constantly upon the 
Naam, and the True Guru is with them; they serve the True Guru, and so obtain peace. 
Through the Shabad, they kill death, and enshrine the True Lord within their hearts; 
they shall not have to come and go again. True is the Lord and Master, and True is His 
Name; His Gracious Glance brings rapture. Those who are separated from their Beloved 
Husband Lord weep and wail, but my True Husband Lord is always with me.  || 1 ||   
God, my Lord and Master, is the highest of all; how can I meet my Dear Beloved? When 
the True Guru united me, then I was naturally united with my Husband Lord, and now, 
I keep Him clasped to my heart. I constantly, lovingly cherish my Beloved within my 
heart; through the True Guru, I see my Husband Lord. The cloak of Maya‟s love is false; 
wearing it, one slips and loses his footing. That cloak is true, which is dyed in the color 
of the Love of my Beloved; wearing it, my thirst is quenched. God, my Lord and Master, 
is the highest of all; how can I meet my Dear Beloved?  || 2 ||   I have realized my True 
Lord God, while the other unworthy ones have gone astray. I dwell constantly upon my 
Beloved  Husband  Lord,  and  contemplate  the  True  Word  of  the  Shabad.  The  bride 
contemplates the True Shabad, attuned to His Love; she meets with the True Guru, and 
finds her Beloved. Deep within, she is attuned to His Love, intoxicated with delight; her 
enemies and sufferings are all taken away. Surrender body and mind to your Guru, and 
then your mind will be happy; your thirst and pain shall be taken away. I have realized 
my True Lord God, while the other unworthy ones have gone astray.  || 3 ||   The True 
Lord  Himself  created  the  world;  without  the  Guru,  there  is  only  pitch  darkness.  He 
Himself unites, and causes us to unite with Him; He Himself blesses us with His Love. 
He  Himself  blesses  us  with  His  Love,  and  deals  in  celestial  peace;  the  life  of  the 
Gurmukh is redeemed. Blessed is his coming into the world; he banishes self-conceit, 
and is acclaimed as true in the Court of the True Lord. The light of the jewel of spiritual 
wisdom shines within his heart, O Nanak, and he loves the Naam, the Name of the 
Lord. The True Lord Himself created the world; without the Guru, there is only pitch 
darkness.    ||  4  ||  3  ||      WADAHANS,    THIRD  MEHL:    This  body  is  frail; old age  is 
overtaking it. Those who are protected by the Guru are saved, while others die, to be 
reincarnated;  they  continue  coming  and  going.  Others  die,  to  be  reincarnated;  they 
continue coming and going, and in the end, they depart with regret. Without the Name, 
there is no peace. According to one‟s actions here, so are the rewards received; the 
self-willed manmukhs lose their honor. In the City of Death, there is pitch darkness and 
huge clouds of dust; neither sister nor brother is there. This body is frail; old age is 
overtaking it.  || 1 ||    