ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  137  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
In death and in life, worship and adore the Lord, the Support of all. In this world and in the 
next, the soul-bride belongs to her Husband Lord, who has such a vast family. He is Lofty 
and Inaccessible. His Wisdom is Unfathomable. He has no end or limitation. That service is 
pleasing to Him, which makes one humble, like the dust of the feet of the Saints. He is the 
Patron of the poor, the Merciful, Luminous Lord, the Redeemer of sinners. From the very 
beginning, and throughout the ages, the True Name of the Creator has been our Saving 
Grace. No one can know His Value; no one can weigh it. He dwells deep within the mind 
and body. O Nanak, He cannot be measured. I am forever a sacrifice to those who serve 
God, day and night.  || 2 ||   The Saints worship and adore Him forever and ever; He is the 
Forgiver of all. He fashioned the soul and the body, and by His Kindness, He bestowed the 
soul. Through the Word of the Guru‟s Shabad, worship and adore Him, and chant His Pure 
Mantra. His Value cannot be evaluated. The Transcendent Lord is endless. That one, within 
whose mind the Lord abides, is said to be most fortunate. The soul‟s desires are fulfilled, 
upon meeting the Master, our Husband Lord. Nanak lives by chanting the Lord‟s Name; all 
sorrows have been erased. One who does not forget Him, day and night, is continually 
rejuvenated.    ||  3  ||      God is  overflowing  with  all  powers.  I  have  no  honor—He is my 
resting place. I have grasped the Support of the Lord within my mind; I live by chanting 
and meditating on His Name. Grant Your Grace, God, and bless me, that I may merge into 
the dust of the feet of the humble. As You keep me, so do I live. I wear and eat whatever 
You give me. May I make the effort, O God, to sing Your Glorious Praises in the Company 
of the Holy. I can conceive of no other place; where could I go to lodge a complaint? You 
are  the  Dispeller  of  ignorance,  the  Destroyer  of  darkness,  O  Lofty,  Unfathomable  and 
Unapproachable  Lord.  Please  unite  this  separated  one  with  Yourself;  this  is  Nanak‟s 
yearning. That day shall bring every joy, O Lord, when I take to the Feet of the Guru.  || 4 
|| 1 ||    
VAAR IN MAAJH,  AND SHALOKS OF THE FIRST MEHL:   
TO BE SUNG TO THE TUNE OF  “MALIK MUREED AND CHANDRAHRAA 
SOHEE-AA”   
O U C G T N
NE  NIVERSAL  REATOR  OD.   RUTH IS THE  AME.   
C B P B G G
REATIVE  EING  ERSONIFIED.   Y  URU‟S  RACE:   
SHALOK,  FIRST MEHL:  The Guru is the Giver; the Guru is the House of ice. The Guru 
is the Light of the three worlds. O Nanak, He is everlasting wealth. Place your mind‟s 
faith in Him, and you shall find peace.  || 1 ||   FIRST MEHL:  First, the baby loves 
mother‟s milk; second, he learns of his mother and father; third, his brothers, sisters 
and aunts; fourth, the love of play awakens. Fifth, he runs after food and drink; sixth, in 
his sexual desire, he does not respect social customs. Seventh, he gathers wealth and 
dwells in his house; eighth, he becomes angry, and his body is consumed. Ninth, he 
turns  grey,  and  his  breathing  becomes  labored;  tenth,  he  is  cremated,  and turns to 
ashes. His companions send him off, crying out and lamenting. The swan of the soul 
takes flight, and asks which way to go.  