ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  553  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
Some,  You  summon  to  the  Mansion  of  Your  Presence  within,  when  they  become 
pleasing  to  Your  Mind,  O  True  Lord.  That  Gurmukh,  whom  You  have  blessed  with 
greatness — that humble being is known and respected in Your True Court.  || 11 ||    
SHALOK,  MARDAANAA:  The Dark Age of Kali Yuga is the vessel, filled with the wine of 
sex; the mind is the drinker. Anger is the cup, filled with emotional attachment; egotism 
is  the  bartender.  Drinking  too  much in  the company of  falsehood and greed, one  is 
ruined. So let good deeds be your distillery, and let Truth be the molasses you ferment; 
make the most excellent wine of Truth. Make virtue your bread, good conduct the ghee, 
and modesty the dish of meat. As Gurmukh, these are obtained, O Nanak; consuming 
them, evil and corruption depart.  || 1 ||   MARDAANAA:  The body is the bottle, self-
conceit is the wine, and desire is the company of drinking buddies. The glass of the 
mind‟s longing is filled to overflowing with falsehood; the Messenger of Death is the 
bartender. Drinking in this wine, O Nanak, one takes on countless vices and corruption. 
So make spiritual wisdom your molasses, and the Praise of God your bread; let the Fear 
of God be the dish of meat. O Nanak, this is the true food; let the True Name be your 
only Support.  || 2 ||   If the human body is the pitcher, and self-realization is the wine, 
then  the  Ambrosial  Nectar  streams  down.  Joining  the  Sat  Sangat,  the  True 
Congregation, the glass of the Lord‟s Love is filled with this Ambrosial Nectar; drinking it 
in, one‟s evil and corruption are eradicated.  || 3 ||   PAUREE:  He Himself is the angelic 
being, the heavenly herald, and the celestial singer. He Himself is the one who explains 
the six schools of philosophy. He Himself is Shiva, Shankara and Mahaysh; He Himself 
is the Gurmukh, who speaks the Unspoken Speech. He Himself is the Yogi, He Himself 
is the Enjoyer of pleasures, and He Himself is the Sannyaasee, wandering through the 
wilderness. He discusses with Himself, and He teaches Himself; He Himself is discrete, 
graceful  and  wise.  Staging  His  own  play,  He  Himself  watches  it;  He  Himself  is  the 
Knower of all beings.  || 12 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  That prayer is accepted, which 
brings the Lord God to my consciousness. Love for the Lord wells up within me, and my 
attachment to Maya is burnt away. By Guru‟s Grace, duality is conquered, and the mind 
becomes stable; I have made contemplative meditation my prayer. O Nanak, the self-
willed manmukh may recite his prayers, but his mind is not focused on it; through birth 
and death, he is ruined.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  I wandered over the whole world, 
crying out, “Love, O love!”, but my thirst was not quenched. O Nanak, meeting the True 
Guru, my desires are satisfied; I found my Husband Lord, when I returned to the home 
of my own inner being.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  He Himself is the supreme essence; He 
Himself is the essence of all. He Himself is the Lord and Master, and He Himself is the 
servant. He Himself created the people of the eighteen castes; God Himself acquired 
His  domain. He Himself kills, and He Himself redeems; He Himself, in  His Kindness, 
forgives us. He is infallible — He never makes mistakes; the True Lord‟s justice is totally 
True. Those whom the Lord Himself instructs as Gurmukh — duality and doubt depart 
from  within  them.    ||  13  ||      SHALOK,    FIFTH  MEHL:    That  body,  which  does  not 
meditate in remembrance on the Lord‟s Name in the Saadh Sangat, shall be reduced to 
dust.  