ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  589  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
The  True  Guru  meets  with  those  upon  whose  foreheads  such  blessed  destiny  is 
recorded.  || 7 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  They alone worship the Lord, who remain 
dead while yet alive; the Gurmukhs always worship God. God blesses them with the 
treasure of devotional worship, which no one can take away. They obtain the treasure 
of virtue, the One True Lord, within their minds. O Nanak, the Gurmukhs remain united 
with God; they shall never be separated again.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  They do not 
serve the True Guru; how can they contemplate? They do not appreciate the value of 
the  Shabad;  the  fools  wander  in  corruption  and  poison.  The  blind  and  the  ignorant 
perform  all  sorts  of  ritualistic  actions;  they  are in  love with  duality. Those who take 
unjustified  pride  in  themselves,  are  punished  and  humiliated  by  the  Messenger  of 
Death.  O  Nanak,  who  else  is  there  to  ask?  God  Himself  is  the  Forgiver.    ||  2  ||   
PAUREE:  You, O Creator, know all things; all beings belong to You. Those who are 
pleasing to You, You unite with Yourself; what can the poor creatures do? You are the 
all-powerful Cause of causes, the True Creator Lord. Those whom You unite, O Beloved, 
are united with You; the Gurmukhs contemplate You. I am a sacrifice to my True Guru, 
who has led me to see my unseen Lord.  || 8 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  He is the 
Assayer of jewels; He contemplates the jewel. The ignorant person is totally blind — he 
does not appreciate the value of the jewel. The Jewel is the Word of the Guru‟s Shabad; 
the Knower alone knows it. The fools take pride in themselves, and are ruined in birth 
and death. O Nanak, he alone obtains the jewel, who, as Gurmukh, enshrines love for 
it. Chant the Naam, the Name of the Lord, forever and ever — make the Name of the 
Lord your daily occupation. If God grants His Grace, then He is enshrined within my 
heart.  || 1 ||   THIRD  MEHL:  They  do not serve the True Guru, and they do not 
embrace love for the Lord‟s Name. Do not even think that they are alive — the Creator 
Lord Himself has killed them. Egotism is such a terrible disease; in the love of duality, 
they do their deeds. O Nanak, the self-willed manmukhs are in a living death; forgetting 
the  Lord,  they  suffer  in  pain.    ||  2  ||      PAUREE:  Let all  bow in  reverence, to that 
humble being whose heart is pure within. I am a sacrifice to that humble being whose 
mind  is  filled  with  the  treasure  of  the  Naam.  He  has  a  discriminating  intellect;  he 
meditates on the Name of the Lord. That True Guru is a friend to all; everyone is dear 
to Him. The Lord, the Supreme Soul, is pervading everywhere; reflect upon the wisdom 
of the Guru‟s Teachings.  || 9 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  Without serving the True 
Guru, the soul is in the bondage of deeds done in ego. Without serving the True Guru, 
one  finds  no  place  of  rest;  he  dies,  and  is  reincarnated,  and  continues  coming  and 
going.  