ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  569  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
The Gurmukh obtains the Naam, the Name of the Husband Lord. O Nanak, through the 
Shabad,  one  meets  the  Lord,  the  Destroyer  of  fear;  by  the  destiny  written  on  her 
forehead, she ravishes and enjoys Him.  || 3 ||   All farming and trading is by Hukam of 
His  Command;  surrendering  to  His  Command,  glorious  greatness  is  obtained.  Under 
Guru‟s Instruction, one comes to understand His Command; by His Command, one is 
united in His Union. By His Command, one intuitively merges and blends with Him. The 
Word  of  the  Guru‟s  Shabad  is  incomparable.  Through  the  Guru,  true  greatness  is 
obtained,  and  one  is  embellished  with  Truth.  One  finds  the  Destroyer  of  fear,  and 
eradicates self-conceit; as Gurmukh, one is united in His Union. Says Nanak, the Name 
of the immaculate, inaccessible, unfathomable Commander is permeating and pervading 
everywhere.  || 4 || 2 ||   WADAHANS,  THIRD MEHL:  O my mind, contemplate the 
True Lord forever. Dwell in peace in the home of your own being, and the Messenger of 
Death will not be able to touch you. The noose of the Messenger of Death will not be 
able to touch you, when you embrace love for the True Word of the Shabad. Forever 
imbued with the True Lord, the mind becomes immaculate, and its comings and goings 
are ended. The love of duality and doubt have ruined the self-willed manmukh, who is 
lured away by the Messenger of Death. Says Nanak, listen, O my mind: contemplate the 
True Lord forever.  || 1 ||   O my mind, the treasure is deep within you; do not search 
for it on the outside. Eat only that which is pleasing to the Lord; as Gurmukh, receive 
the blessing of His Glance of Grace. As Gurmukh, receive the blessing of His Glance of 
Grace, O my mind; the Name of the Lord, your help and support, is deep within you. 
The self-willed manmukhs are blind and devoid of wisdom; they are ruined by the love 
of duality. Without the Name, no one is emancipated. All are bound by the Messenger 
of Death. O Nanak, the treasure is deep within you; do not search for it on the outside.  
|| 2 ||   O my mind, obtaining the blessing of this human birth, some are engaged in 
the trade of Truth. They serve their True Guru, and the Infinite Word of the Shabad 
resounds deep within. Deep within is the Infinite Shabad, and the Beloved Naam, the 
Name of the Lord; through the Naam, the nine treasures are obtained. The self-willed 
manmukhs are engrossed in emotional attachment to Maya; they suffer in pain, and 
through duality, they lose their honor. But those who conquer their ego, and merge in 
the True Shabad, are totally imbued with Truth. O Nanak, it is so difficult to obtain this 
human life; the True Guru imparts this understanding.  || 3 ||   O my mind, those who 
serve their True Guru are the most fortunate beings. Those who conquer their minds 
are  beings  of  renunciation  and  detachment.  They  are  beings  of  renunciation  and 
detachment — they are lovingly focused on the True One; they realize and understand 
themselves. Their intellect is steady, deep and profound; as Gurmukh, they naturally 
chant the Naam, the Name of the Lord. Some are lovers of beautiful young women; 
infatuation  with  Maya  is  very  dear  to  them.  The  unfortunate  self-willed  manmukhs 
remain asleep. O Nanak, those who intuitively serve their Guru have perfect destiny.  || 
4 || 3 ||   WADAHANS,  THIRD MEHL:  Purchase the jewel, the priceless treasure; the 
True Guru has given this understanding. The profit of profits is devotional worship of 
the Lord; one‟s virtues merge into the virtues of the Lord.  