ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  544  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
O Nanak, meditate in remembrance on that Dear Lord, who supports all by His Power. 
The Gurmukhs do not forget the Dear Lord, the Primal Creator Lord, from their minds. 
Pain, disease and fear do not cling to those who meditate on the Lord, Har, Har. By the 
Grace of the Saints, they cross over the terrifying world-ocean, and obtain their pre-
ordained destiny. They are congratulated and applauded, and their minds are at peace; 
they meet the Infinite Lord God. Prays Nanak, meditating in remembrance on the Lord, 
Har, Har, my desires are fulfilled.  || 4 || 3 ||    
 
BIHAAGRAA,  FIFTH MEHL,  SECOND HOUSE:   
O U C G B G T G
NE  NIVERSAL  REATOR  OD.   Y THE  RACE OF THE  RUE  URU:   
O peaceful night, grow longer — I have enshrined love for my Beloved. O painful sleep, 
grow shorter, so that I may constantly touch His Feet. I long for the dust of His Feet, 
and always beg for His Name; for His Love, I have renounced the world. I am imbued 
with the Love of my Beloved, intuitively intoxicated with it; I have forsaken my terrible 
evil-mindedness. He has taken me by the arm; I am drenched in His Love. I have met 
my Beloved on the Path of Truth. Prays Nanak, please shower me with Your Mercy, that 
I may remain attached to Your Feet.  || 1 ||   O my friends and companions, let us 
remain attached to the Feet of God. My mind is filled with a great love for my Beloved; I 
beg  for  the  Lord‟s  devotional  worship.  The  Lord‟s  devotional  worship  is  obtained  by 
meditating on God. Let us go and meet the humble servants of the Lord. Renounce 
pride, emotional attachment and corruption, and dedicate this body, wealth and mind to 
Him. The Lord God is great, perfect, glorious, absolutely perfect; meeting the Lord, Har, 
Har, the wall of doubt is torn down. Prays Nanak, hear these teachings, O friends — 
chant the Lord‟s Name constantly, continually, over and over again.  || 2 ||   The Lord‟s 
bride is a happy wife; she enjoys all pleasures. She does not sit around like a widow, 
because the Lord God lives forever. She does not suffer pain — she meditates on God. 
She is blessed, and very fortunate. She sleeps in peaceful ease, her sins are eradicated, 
and she wakes to the joy and love of the Naam. She remains absorbed in her Beloved 
— the Lord‟s Name is her ornament. The Words of her Beloved are sweet and pleasing 
to  her.  Prays  Nanak,  I  have  obtained  my  mind‟s  desires;  I  have  met  my  eternal 
Husband Lord.  || 3 ||   The songs of bliss resound, and millions of pleasures are found 
in that house; the mind and body are permeated by God, the Lord of supreme bliss. My 
Husband Lord is infinite and merciful; He is the Supreme Lord, the Lord of the Universe, 
the Saving Grace of sinners. God, the Giver of mercy, the Lord, the Destroyer of pride, 
carries  us  across  the  terrifying  world-ocean  of  poison.  The  Lord  lovingly  embraces 
whoever  comes  to  His  Sanctuary  —  this  is  the  way  of  the  Lord  and  Master.  Prays 
Nanak, I have met my Husband Lord, who plays with me forever.  || 4 || 1 || 4 ||   
BIHAAGRAA,  FIFTH MEHL:  The Lord‟s Feet are the Pools of Ambrosial Nectar; dwell 
there, O my mind.  