ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  573  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
I see the One Lord, and I know the One Lord; I realize the Lord within my soul. Without 
the Guru, I am — without the Guru, I am totally dishonored.  || 1 ||   Those who have 
found the True Guru, the True Guru — the Lord God unites them in His Union. Their 
feet, their feet, I adore; I fall at their feet. O Lord, Har, Har, I adore the feet of those 
who meditate on the True Guru, and the Almighty Lord God. You are the Great Giver, 
the  Inner-knower,  the  Searcher  of  hearts;  please,  reward  my  faith,  O  Lord  King. 
Meeting the Gursikhs, my faith is rewarded; night and day, I sing the Glorious Praises of 
the Lord. Those who have found the True Guru, the True Guru — the Lord God unites 
them in His Union.  || 2 ||   I am a sacrifice, I am a sacrifice to the Gursikhs, my dear 
friends. They chant the Lord‟s Name, the Lord‟s Name; the Beloved Naam, the Name of 
the Lord, is my only Support. The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is the companion of my 
breath of life; without it, I cannot live for an instant or a moment. The Lord, Har, Har, 
the Giver of peace, grants His Grace, and the Gurmukhs drink in the Ambrosial Nectar. 
The  Lord  blesses  them  with  faith,  and  unites  them  in  His  Union;  the  Lord  Himself 
adorns them. I am a sacrifice, I am a sacrifice to the Gursikhs, my dear friends.  || 3 ||   
The Lord Himself, the Lord Himself — He is the Immaculate Almighty Lord God. The 
Lord Himself, the Lord Himself, unites us with Himself; that which He does, comes to 
pass. Whatever is pleasing to the Lord God, that alone comes to pass; nothing else can 
be done. Even by all sorts of clever tricks, He cannot be obtained; all have grown weary 
of practicing cleverness. By Guru‟s Grace, servant Nanak beholds Him; without the Lord, 
I  have  no other at all. The Lord Himself, the Lord Himself  —  He is the Immaculate 
Almighty Lord God.  || 4 || 2 ||   WADAHANS,  FOURTH MEHL:  The Lord, the True 
Guru, the Lord, the True Guru — if only I could meet the Lord, the True Guru; His Lotus 
Feet are so pleasing to me. The darkness of ignorance was dispelled when the Guru 
applied the healing ointment of spiritual wisdom to my eyes. The True Guru has applied 
the healing ointment of spiritual wisdom to my eyes, and the darkness of ignorance has 
been dispelled. Serving the True Guru, I have obtained the supreme status; I meditate 
on the Lord with every breath and morsel of food. Those, upon whom the Lord God has 
bestowed His Grace, are committed to the service of the True Guru. The Lord, the True 
Guru, the Lord, the True Guru — if only I could meet the Lord, the True Guru; His Lotus 
Feet are so pleasing to me.  || 1 ||   My True Guru, my True Guru is my Beloved; 
without the Guru, I cannot survive. He gives me the Name of the Lord, the Name of the 
Lord,  my  only  companion  in  the  end.  The  Name  of  the  Lord,  Har,  Har,  is  my  only 
companion in the end; the Guru, the True Guru, has implanted the Naam within me. 
There, where neither your children nor your spouse shall accompany you, the Name of 
the  Lord,  Har,  Har  shall  emancipate  you.  Blessed,  blessed  is  the  True  Guru,  the 
Immaculate, Almighty Lord God; meeting Him, I meditate on the Name of the Lord.  