ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  586  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
|| 1 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  The entire creation is in fear; only the Dear Lord is 
fearless. Serving the True Guru, the Lord comes to dwell in the mind, and then, fear 
can never stay there. Enemies and pain cannot come close, and no one can touch you. 
The Gurmukh contemplates God in the mind; whatever pleases God comes to pass. O 
Nanak, He Himself preserves one‟s honor; He alone resolves our affairs.  || 1 ||   THIRD 
MEHL:    Some  friends  are  leaving,  some  have  already  left,  and  those  remaining  will 
eventually leave. Those who do not serve the True Guru, come and go regretting. O 
Nanak, those who are attuned to Truth are not separated; serving the True Guru, they 
merge into the Lord.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  Meet with that True Guru, the true friend, 
within whose mind the virtuous Lord abides. Meet with that Beloved True Guru, who 
has subdued egotism from within. Blessed, blessed is that Perfect True Guru, who has 
given the Lord‟s Teachings to reform the whole world. O Saints, meditate constantly on 
the Name of the Lord, and cross over the terrifying, poisonous world-ocean. The Perfect 
Guru  has  taught  me  about  the  Lord;  I  am  forever  a  sacrifice  to  the  Guru.    ||  2  ||   
SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  Service to the True Guru is the essence of comfort and peace. 
Doing so, one obtains honor here, and the door of salvation in the Court of the Lord. So 
perform  the  tasks  of  Truth,  wear  Truth,  and  take  the  Support  of  the  True  Name. 
Associating with Truth, obtain Truth, and love the True Name. Through the True Word 
of the Shabad, you shall be happy forever, and acclaimed as True in the True Court. O 
Nanak, he alone serves the True Guru, whom the Creator has blessed with His Glance 
of Grace.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  Cursed is the life, and cursed is the dwelling, of those 
who serve another. They abandon the Ambrosial Nectar and turn to poison; they earn 
poison, and poison is their only wealth. Poison is their food, and poison is their dress; 
they  fill their mouths with morsels of poison. In this world, they earn only pain and 
suffering,  and  dying,  they  go  to  dwell  in  hell.  The  self-willed  manmukhs  have  filthy 
faces; they do not know the Word of the Shabad. In sexual desire and anger they waste 
away.  They  forsake  the  Fear  of  the  True  Guru,  and  because  of  their  stubborn-
mindedness, their  efforts do not succeed. In the City  of Death, they  are  bound and 
beaten,  and  no  one  hears  their  prayers.  O  Nanak,  they  act  according  to  their  pre-
ordained destiny; the Gurmukhs abide in the Naam.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  Serve the True 
Guru, O Holy people; He implants the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, within. Worship the 
True Guru day and night; He leads us the meditate on the Lord of the Universe, the 
Master of the Universe. Behold the True Guru, each and every moment; He shows us 
the spiritual path of the Lord. Let everyone fall at the feet of the True Guru; He has 
dispelled the darkness of emotional attachment. Let everyone hail and praise the True 
Guru, who has led us to find the treasure of the Lord‟s devotional worship.  || 3 ||   
SHALOK,    THIRD  MEHL:    Meeting  the  True  Guru,  hunger  departs;  hunger  does  not 
depart by wearing the robes of a beggar.  