ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  539  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
The Lord‟s humble servants beg and implore Him, and seek His Sanctuary, O my soul; 
Guru Nanak becomes their Divine Protector.  || 3 ||   The Lord‟s humble servants are 
saved, through the Love of the Lord, O my soul; by their primal good destiny, they find 
the Lord. The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is the boat, O my soul, and the Guru is the 
Boatman. Through the Word of the Shabad, He ferries us across. The Primal Lord God, 
Har, Har, is very kind, O my soul; through the Guru, the True Guru, He seems so sweet. 
Grant Your Grace, and hear my prayer, O Lord, Har, Har; servant Nanak meditates on 
the  Naam.    ||  4  ||  2  ||      BIHAAGRAA,    FOURTH  MEHL:    In  this  world,  the  best 
occupation is to sing the Praises of the Naam, O my soul. Singing the Praises of the 
Lord, the Lord is enshrined in the mind. The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is immaculate 
and pure, O my soul. Chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, one is saved. All sins, 
errors and sorrows are cut away, O my soul; the Gurmukh washes off this filth with the 
Naam, the Name of the Lord. By great good fortune, servant Nanak meditates on the 
Lord; even fools and idiots like me have been saved.  || 1 ||   Those who meditate on 
the Name of the Lord, O my soul, overpower the five passions. The nine treasures of 
the Naam are within, O my soul; the Guru, the True Guru, has revealed the Unseen. 
The Guru has fulfilled my hopes and desires, O my soul; meeting the Lord, all hunger is 
satisfied.  O servant Nanak, he alone sings the Glorious Praises of the Lord, O my soul, 
upon whose forehead the Lord God has inscribed such pre-ordained destiny.  || 2 ||   I 
am a deceitful sinner, O my soul; I cheat others, and rob and plunder their wealth. But 
by great good fortune, I have found the Guru, O my soul; through the Perfect Guru, I 
have  found  the  way  to  salvation.  The  Guru  has poured the Ambrosial  Nectar of the 
Lord‟s Name into my mouth, O my soul, and now, my dead soul has come back to life. 
O servant Nanak, those who meet the True Guru, O my soul, have all of their pains 
taken away.  || 3 ||   The Name of the Lord is the most sublime, O my soul; chanting it, 
one‟s sins are washed away. The Guru, the Lord, has purified even the sinners, O my 
soul; now, they are famous and respected in the four directions, throughout the four 
ages. The filth of egotism is totally wiped away, O my soul, by bathing in the Ambrosial 
Pool of the Lord‟s Name. Even criminals and sinners are saved, O my soul, if they are 
attuned  to  the  Lord‟s  Name,  even  for  an  instant,  O  servant  Nanak.    ||  4  ||  3  ||   
BIHAAGRAA,    FOURTH  MEHL:    I  am  a  sacrifice,  O  my  soul,  to  those  who  take  the 
Support of the Name of the Lord, Har, Har. The Guru, the True Guru, implanted the 
Name within me, O my soul; He has carried me across the terrifying world-ocean of 
poison.  Those  who  have  single-mindedly  meditated  on  the  Lord,  O  my  soul  —  I 
proclaim the victory of those saintly beings.  