ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  567  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
I am a sacrifice to the True Name. Your rule shall never end. Your rule is eternal and 
unchanging;  it  shall  never  come  to  an  end.  He  alone  becomes  Your  servant,  who 
contemplates You in peaceful ease. Enemies and pain shall never touch him, and sin 
shall never come close to him. I am forever a sacrifice to the One Lord, and Your Name.  
|| 4 ||   Throughout the ages, Your devotees sing Your Praises, O Lord Master, at Your 
Door. They meditate on the One True Lord. They meditate on the True Lord, when they 
enshrine  Him  in  their  minds.  Doubt  and  delusion  are  Your  making;  when  these  are 
dispelled, then, by Guru‟s Grace, You grant Your Grace, and save them from the noose 
of Death. Throughout the ages, they are Your devotees.  || 5 ||   O my Great Lord and 
Master, You are unknowable and infinite. How should I make and offer my prayer? I do 
not know what to say. If You bless me with Your Glance of Grace, then I realize the 
Truth. I come to realize the Truth, when You Yourself instruct me. The pain and hunger 
of the world are Your making; please eradicate this skepticism. Prays Nanak, skepticism 
is taken away, when one understands the Guru‟s wisdom. The Great Lord and Master is 
unknowable and infinite.  || 6 ||   Your eyes are beautiful, and Your teeth are delightful. 
Your nose is graceful, and Your hair is so long. Your body is precious, cast in gold. His 
body is cast in gold, and He wears Krishna‟s mala; meditate on Him, O sisters. You shall 
not have to stand at Death‟s door, O sisters, if you listen to these teachings. From a 
crane,  you  shall  be  transformed  into  a  swan,  and  the  filth  of  your  mind  shall  be 
removed. Your eyes are beautiful, and Your teeth are delightful.  || 7 ||   Your walk is 
graceful, and Your speech is sweet. You coo like a songbird, and your youthful beauty is 
alluring.  Your  youthful  beauty  is  so  alluring;  it  pleases  You  and  fulfills  the  mind‟s 
desires. Like an elephant, You step with Your Feet so carefully; You are pleased with 
Yourself. She who is imbued with the Love of such a Great Lord, flows intoxicated, like 
the waters of the Ganges. Prays Nanak, I am Your slave, O Lord; Your walk is graceful, 
and Your speech is sweet.  || 8 || 2 ||    
 
WADAHANS,  THIRD MEHL,  CHHANT:   
O U C G B G T G
NE  NIVERSAL  REATOR  OD.   Y THE  RACE OF THE  RUE  URU:   
Be imbued with the Love of your Husband Lord, O beautiful, perishable bride. Remain 
immersed  in  the True Word of the Shabad, O perishable bride; savor and enjoy the 
Love of your Beloved Husband. The Husband Lord embellishes His beloved bride with 
His True Love; she is in love with the Lord, Har, Har. Renouncing her selfishness, she 
attains her Husband Lord, and remains merged in the Word of the Guru‟s Shabad. That 
soul-bride is adorned with the Shabad, who is attracted by His Love, and who treasures 
the Love of her Beloved deep within. O Nanak, the Husband Lord blends that soul bride 
with  Himself;  the  True  King  embellishes  her.    ||  1  ||      O  worthless bride, see your 
Husband Lord ever-present.  