ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  550  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
Night and day, his doubts never stop; without the Word of the Shabad, he suffers in 
pain.  Sexual  desire,  anger  and  greed  are  very  powerful  within;  he  passes  his  life 
constantly entangled in worldly affairs. His feet, hands, eyes and ears are exhausted; 
his days are numbered, and death is approaching. The True Name does not seem sweet 
to him — the Name by which the nine treasures are obtained. But if he remains dead 
while yet alive, then by so dying, he truly lives; thus, he attains liberation. But if he is 
not  blessed  with  such  pre-destined  karma,  then  without  this  karma,  what  can  he 
obtain? Meditate on the Word of the Guru‟s Shabad, you fool; through the Shabad, you 
shall  obtain  salvation  and  wisdom.  O  Nanak,  he  alone  finds  the  True  Guru,  who 
eradicates self-conceit from within.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  One whose consciousness is 
filled with my Lord and Master — why should he feel anxious about anything? The Lord 
is the Giver of peace, the Lord of all things; why would we turn our faces away from His 
meditation, for a moment, even for an instant? One who meditates on the Lord obtains 
all pleasures and comforts; let‟s go, each and every day, to sit in the Society of the 
Saints. All the pain, hunger and disease of the Lord‟s servant are eradicated; the bonds 
of all the humble beings are torn away. By the Lord‟s Grace, one becomes the Lord‟s 
devotee; beholding the face of the Lord‟s humble devotee, the whole world is saved 
and carried across.  || 4 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  Let that tongue, which has not 
tasted the Taste of the Lord, be burnt. O Nanak, one whose mind is filled with the Lord, 
Har, Har — his tongue savors the Word of the Shabad.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  Let that 
tongue, which has forgotten the Name of the Lord, be burnt. O Nanak, the tongue of 
the  Gurmukh  chants  the  Lord‟s  Name,  and  loves  the  Name  of  the  Lord.    ||  2  ||   
PAUREE:    The  Lord  Himself  is  the  Master,  the  servant  and  the  devotee;  the  Lord 
Himself is the Cause of causes. The Lord Himself beholds, and He Himself rejoices. As 
He pleases, He enjoins us. The Lord places some on the Path, and the Lord Himself 
leads others into the wilderness. The Lord is the True Master; True is His justice. He 
arranges and watches all His plays. By Guru‟s Grace, servant Nanak speaks and sings 
the Glorious Praises of the True Lord.  || 5 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  How rare is the 
dervish, the Saintly renunciate, who understands renunciation. Cursed is the life, and 
cursed are the clothes, of one who wanders around, begging from door to door. But if 
he  gives  up  hope  and  anxiety  and  becomes  Gurmukh,  and  takes  the  Name  as  his 
charity, then Nanak washes his feet; I am a sacrifice to him.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  O 
Nanak, the tree has one fruit, but two birds are perched upon it. They are not seen 
coming  or  going;  these birds have no wings. The soul enjoys all  sorts of pleasures; 
through  the  Word  of  the  Shabad,  it  remains  in  Nirvaanaa.  Imbued  with  the  subtle 
essence of the fruit of the Lord‟s Name, O Nanak, it bears the True Insignia of God‟s 
Grace.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  He Himself is the field, and He Himself is the farmer. He 
Himself grows and grinds the grain. He Himself cooks it, He Himself puts the food in the 
dishes, and He Himself sits down to eat.  