ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  585  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
The body becomes golden, when one unites with the True Guru. Doubt and Maya have 
been removed from within me, and I am merged in the True Name. Merged in the True 
Name, I sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord; meeting my Beloved, I have found peace. 
I am in constant bliss, day and night; egotism has been dispelled from within me. I fall 
at the feet of those persons who enshrine the Naam within their consciousness. The 
body becomes golden, when one unites with the True Guru.  || 2 ||   We truly praise 
the True Lord, when the True Guru imparts understanding. Without the True Guru, they 
are deluded by doubt; going to the world hereafter, what face will they show? What 
face will they show, when they go there? They will regret and repent for their sins — 
their actions will bring them only pain and suffering. Those who are imbued with the 
Naam are dyed in the deep crimson color of the Lord‟s Love; they merge into the Being 
of their Husband Lord. I cannot conceive of any other as great as the Lord; unto whom 
should I go and speak? We truly praise the True Lord, when the True Guru imparts 
understanding.  || 3 ||   I fall at the feet of those who praise the Truest of the True. 
Those humble beings are true and immaculately pure; meeting them, all filth is washed 
off. Meeting them, all filth is washed off; bathing in the Pool of Truth, one becomes 
truthful, with intuitive ease. The True Guru has given me the realization of the Naam, 
the Name of the immaculate, unfathomable, imperceptible Lord. Those who worship the 
Lord with devotion night and day are attuned to His Love; O Nanak, they are absorbed 
in the True Lord. I fall at the feet of those who meditate on the Truest of the True.  || 4 
|| 4 ||    
 
VAAR OF WADAHANS,  FOURTH MEHL:  TO BE SUNG IN THE TUNE OF 
LALAA-BEHLEEMAA:   
O U C G B G T G
NE  NIVERSAL  REATOR  OD.   Y THE  RACE OF THE  RUE  URU:   
SHALOK,    THIRD  MEHL:    The  great  swan-souls  are  imbued  with  the  Word  of  the 
Shabad; they enshrine the True Name within their hearts. They gather Truth, remain 
always in Truth, and love the True Name. They are always pure and immaculate — filth 
does not touch them; they are blessed with the Grace of the Creator Lord. O Nanak, I 
am a sacrifice to those who meditate on the Lord night and day.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  
I thought that he was a great swan, so I associated with him. If I had known that he 
was only a wretched heron from birth, I would not have touched him.  || 2 ||   THIRD 
MEHL:    Seeing  the  swans  swimming,  the  herons  wanted  to  do  it  too.  But  the  poor 
herons drowned and died, and floated with their heads down and their feet up.  || 3 ||   
PAUREE:  You Yourself are Yourself, all by Yourself; You Yourself created the creation. 
You Yourself are Yourself the Formless Lord; there is no other than You. You are the 
all-powerful  Cause of causes; whatever You do, comes to pass. You give gifts to all 
beings, without their asking. Everyone proclaims, “Waaho! Waaho! Blessed, blessed is 
the True Guru, who has given the supreme gift of the Name of the Lord.   