ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  587  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
Afflicted with pain, he wanders from house to house, and in the world hereafter, he 
receives double punishment. Intuitive peace does not come to his inner being — he is 
not content to eat what comes his way. With his stubborn mind, he begs, and grabs, 
and annoys those who give. Instead of wearing these beggar‟s robes, it is better to be a 
householder, and give to others. Those who are attuned to the Word of the Shabad, 
acquire  understanding;  the  others  wander,  deluded  by  doubt.  They  act  according  to 
their past actions; it is useless to talk to them. O Nanak, those who are pleasing to God 
are good; He upholds their honor.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  Serving the True Guru, one 
finds a lasting peace; the pains of birth and death are removed. He is not troubled by 
anxiety; the carefree Lord comes to dwell in the mind. Deep within, is the sacred shrine 
of spiritual wisdom, revealed by the True Guru. Filth is removed, and the mind becomes 
pure, bathing in the sacred shrine, the pool of Ambrosial Nectar. The friend meets with 
the  True  Friend,  the  Lord,  through  the  love  of  the  Shabad.  Within  the  home  of  his 
heart, he finds the Divine Self, and his light blends with the Light. The Messenger of 
Death does not leave the hypocrite; he is led away in dishonor. O Nanak, those who are 
attuned to the Naam are saved; they are in love with the True Lord.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  
Go, and sit in the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation, where the Name of the Lord is 
churned. In peace and poise, contemplate the Lord‟s Name — don‟t lose the essence of 
the Lord. Chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, constantly, day and night, and you 
shall be accepted in the Court of the Lord. He alone finds the Perfect True Guru, on 
whose forehead such pre-ordained destiny is written. Let everyone bow in worship to 
the Guru, who speaks the sermon of the Lord.  || 4 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  The 
friends who love the True Guru, meet with  the Lord, the True Friend. Meeting their 
Beloved,  they  meditate  on  the  True  Lord  with  love  and  affection.  Their  minds  are 
appeased by their own minds, through the incomparable Word of the Guru‟s Shabad. 
These friends are united, and will not be separated again; they have been united by the 
Creator Lord Himself. Some do not believe in the Blessed Vision of the Guru‟s Darshan; 
they do not contemplate the Word of the Shabad. The separated ones are in love with 
duality  —  what  more  separation  can  they  suffer?  Friendship  with  the  self-willed 
manmukhs lasts for only a few short days. This friendship is broken in an instant; this 
friendship leads to corruption. They do not fear the True Lord within their hearts, and 
they do not love the Naam. O Nanak, why become friends with those whom the Creator 
Lord Himself has misled?  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  Some remain constantly imbued with 
the Love of the One Lord; I am forever a sacrifice to them. I dedicate my body, mind 
and wealth to them; bowing low, I fall at their feet. Meeting them, the mind is satisfied, 
and one‟s hunger and thirst all depart. O Nanak, those who are attuned to the Naam 
are  happy  forever;  they  lovingly  focus  their  awareness  on  the  True  Lord.    ||  2  ||   
PAUREE:  I am a sacrifice to the Guru, who recites the sermon of the Lord‟s Teachings.  