ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  572  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
Within his home, he finds the home of his own inner being; the True Guru blesses him 
with greatness. O Nanak, those who are attuned to the Naam find the Mansion of the 
Lord‟s Presence; their understanding is true and approved.  || 4 || 6 ||    
 
WADAHANS,  FOURTH MEHL,  CHHANT:   
O U C G B G T G
NE  NIVERSAL  REATOR  OD.   Y THE  RACE OF THE  RUE  URU:   
My mind, my mind — the True Guru has blessed it with love. The Name of the Lord, 
Har, Har, Har, Har,  dwells within my  mind. The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, dwells 
within my mind; it is the Destroyer of all pain. By great good fortune, I have obtained 
the  Blessed  Vision  of  the  Guru‟s  Darshan;  blessed,  blessed  is  my  True  Guru.  While 
standing up and sitting down, I serve the True Guru; serving Him, I have found peace 
and tranquility. My mind, my mind — the True Guru has blessed it with love.  || 1 ||   I 
live, I live, and I blossom forth, beholding the True Guru. The Name of the Lord, He has 
implanted the Name of the Lord within me; chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, I 
blossom forth. Chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, the heart-lotus blossoms forth, 
and through the Name of the Lord, I have obtained the nine treasures. The disease of 
egotism has been eradicated, suffering has been eliminated, and I have entered the 
Lord‟s state of celestial Samaadhi. I have obtained the glorious greatness of Name of 
the Lord from the True Guru; beholding the Divine True Guru, my mind is at peace. I 
live, I live, and I blossom forth, beholding the True Guru.  || 2 ||   If only someone 
would come, if only someone would come, and lead me to meet my Perfect True Guru. 
My mind and body, my mind and body — I cut my body into pieces, and I dedicate 
these to Him. Cutting my mind and body apart, cutting them into pieces, I offer these 
to  the  one,  who  recites  to  me  the  Words  of  the  True  Guru.  My  mind  has  become 
disillusioned  and  renounced  the  world;  obtaining  the  Blessed  Vision  of  the  Guru‟s 
Darshan, it has found peace. O Lord, Har, Har, O Giver of Peace, please, grant Your 
Grace, and bless me with the dust of the feet of the True Guru. If only someone would 
come, if only someone would come, and lead me to meet my Perfect True Guru.  || 3 ||   
A  Giver  as  great  as  the  Guru,  as  great  as  the  Guru  —  I  cannot  see  any  other.  He 
blesses me with  the gift of the Lord‟s Name, the gift of the Lord‟s Name; He is the 
Immaculate Lord God. Those who worship in adoration the Name of the Lord, Har, Har 
—  their  pain,  doubt  and  fear  are  dispelled.  Through  their  loving  service,  those  very 
fortunate ones meet Him; their minds are attached to the Guru‟s Feet. Says Nanak, the 
Lord Himself causes us to meet the Guru; meeting the Almighty True Guru, peace is 
obtained. A Giver as great as the Guru, as great as the Guru — I cannot see any other.  
|| 4 || 1 ||   WADAHANS,  FOURTH MEHL:  Without the Guru, I am — without the Guru, 
I am totally dishonored. The Life of the world, the Life of the world, the Great Giver has 
led me to meet and merge with the Guru. Meeting the True Guru, I have merged into 
the Naam, the Name of the Lord. I chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, and meditate 
on it. I was seeking and searching for Him, for the Lord, my best friend; I found Him 
within the home of my own being.  