ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  575  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
Chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is 
pleasing to my mind.  || 3 ||   Grant Your Grace, grant Your Grace, Lord, and save me. 
I  am  a  sinner,  I  am  a  worthless  sinner,  I  am  meek,  but  I  am  Yours,  Lord.  I  am  a 
worthless sinner, and I am meek, but I am Yours; I seek Your Sanctuary, O Merciful 
Lord. You are the Destroyer of pain, the Giver of absolute peace; I am a stone — please 
carry me across and save me. Meeting the True Guru, servant Nanak has obtained the 
subtle essence of the Lord; through the Naam, the Name of the Lord, he is saved. Grant 
Your Grace, grant Your Grace, Lord, and save me.  || 4 || 4 ||    
 
WADAHANS,  FOURTH MEHL,  GHOREES ~ THE WEDDING PROCESSION:   
O U C G B G T G
NE  NIVERSAL  REATOR  OD.   Y THE  RACE OF THE  RUE  URU:   
This body-horse was created by the Lord. Blessed is human life, which is obtained by 
virtuous actions. Human life is obtained only by the most virtuous actions; this body is 
radiant and golden. The Gurmukh is imbued with the deep crimson color of the poppy; 
he is imbued with the new color of the Lord‟s Name, Har, Har, Har. This body is so very 
beautiful; it chants the Name of the Lord, and it is adorned with the Name of the Lord, 
Har, Har. By great good fortune, the body is obtained; the Naam, the Name of the Lord, 
is its companion; O servant Nanak, the Lord has created it.  || 1 ||   I place the saddle 
on the body-horse, the saddle of realization of the Good Lord. Riding this horse, I cross 
over the treacherous world-ocean. The treacherous world-ocean is rocked by countless 
waves, but the Gurmukh is carried across. Embarking upon the boat of the Lord, the 
very fortunate ones cross over; the Guru, the Boatman, carries them across, through 
the  Word  of  the  Shabad.  Night  and  day,  imbued  with  the  Lord‟s  Love,  singing  the 
Glorious Praises of the Lord, the Lord‟s lover loves the Lord. Servant Nanak has attained 
the state of Nirvaanaa, the state of ultimate goodness, the state of the Lord.  || 2 ||   
The Guru has implanted spiritual wisdom within me, as a bridle in my mouth. He has 
applied the whip of the Lord‟s Love to my body. Applying the whip of the Lord‟s Love to 
the body, the Gurmukh conquers the mind, and wins the battle of life. He trains his 
untrained mind with the Word of the Shabad, and drinks in the rejuvenating essence of 
the Lord‟s Nectar. Listen with your ears to the Word, spoken by the Guru, and attune 
your body-horse to the Lord‟s Love. Servant Nanak has crossed over on the path, the 
treacherous path.  || 3 ||   The body-horse was created by the Lord. Blessed, blessed is 
that body-horse which meditates on the Lord God. Blessed and acclaimed is that body-
horse which meditates on the Lord God; it is obtained by the merits of past actions. 
Riding  the  body-horse,  one  crosses  over  the  treacherous  world-ocean;  the  Gurmukh 
meets the Lord, the embodiment of supreme bliss. The Lord, Har, Har, has perfectly 
arranged  this  wedding;  the  Saints  have  come  together  as  a  wedding  party.  Servant 
Nanak has obtained the Lord as his Spouse; joining together, the Saints sing the songs 
of joy and congratulations.  || 4 || 1 || 5 ||   WADAHANS,  FOURTH MEHL:  The body is 
the Lord‟s horse, imbued with the fresh and new color. From the Guru, I ask for the 
Lord‟s spiritual wisdom.  