ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  542  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
The One who fashioned the world causes them to come and go. Some meet the True 
Guru — the Lord invites them into the Mansion of His Presence; others wander around, 
deluded by doubt. You alone know Your limits; You are contained in all. Nanak speaks 
the Truth — listen, Saints: the Lord dispenses even-handed justice.  || 1 ||   Come and 
join with me, O my beautiful dear beloveds; let‟s worship the Name of the Lord, Har, 
Har. Let‟s serve the Perfect True Guru, O my dear beloveds, and clear away the Path of 
Death. Having cleared the treacherous path, as Gurmukhs we shall obtain honor in the 
Court  of  the  Lord.  Those  who  have  such  pre-ordained  destiny,  lovingly  focus  their 
attention  on  the  Lord,  night  and  day.  Egotism,  possessiveness  and  emotional 
attachment are eradicated when one joins the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy. 
Says  servant  Nanak,  one  who  contemplates  the  Name  of  the  Lord,  Har,  Har,  is 
liberated.  || 2 ||   Let‟s join hands, O Saints; let‟s come together, O my dear beloveds, 
and  worship  the  Imperishable,  Almighty  Lord  God.  I  sought  Him  through  uncounted 
forms of adoration, O my dear beloveds; now, I dedicate all my mind and body to the 
Lord.  Mind,  body  and  wealth  all  belong  to  God;  so  what  can  anyone  offer  Him  in 
worship? He alone merges in the lap of God, unto whom the Merciful Lord and Master 
becomes kind. One who has such pre-ordained destiny written on his forehead, comes 
to bear love for the Guru. Says servant Nanak, join the Saadh Sangat, the Company of 
the Holy, and worship the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.  || 3 ||   I wandered around, 
searching in the ten directions, O my dear beloveds, but I came to find the Lord in the 
home of my own being. The Dear Lord has fashioned the body as the temple of the 
Lord,  O  my  dear  beloveds;  the  Lord  continues  to  dwell  there.  The  Lord  and  Master 
Himself is pervading everywhere; He is revealed to the Gurmukh. Darkness is dispelled, 
and pain is removed, when the sublime essence of the Lord‟s Ambrosial Nectar trickles 
down.  Wherever  I  look,  the  Lord  and  Master  is  there.  The  Supreme  Lord  God  is 
everywhere. Says servant Nanak, meeting the True Guru, I have found the Lord within 
the home of my own being.  || 4 || 1 ||   RAAG BIHAAGRAA,  FIFTH MEHL:  He is so 
dear to me; He fascinates my mind; the Lord is the ornament of my heart, the support 
of the breath of life. The Glory of the Beloved, the Merciful Lord of the Universe, is 
beautiful; He is infinite and unlimited. O Compassionate Lord of the World, Beloved Lord 
of the Universe, please join with Your humble soul-bride. My eyes long for the Blessed 
Vision of Your Darshan; the night passes, but I cannot sleep. I have applied the healing 
ointment of spiritual wisdom to my eyes; the Naam, the Name of the Lord, is my food. 
These are all my decorations. Prays Nanak, meditate on the Saint, that he may unite us 
with our Husband Lord.  || 1 ||   I endure thousands of reprimands, but still, my Lord 
has not met with me. I try to meet with my Lord, but nothing works. My consciousness 
is unsteady, and my wealth is unstable; without my Beloved, I cannot be consoled.  