ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  538  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
My  mind  is  washed  clean  by  the  sublime  essence  of  the  Lord‟s  Name.  Through  the 
Guru‟s Teachings, hold the mind steady, O my soul; do not let it wander anywhere. One 
who chants the Bani of the Praises of the Lord God, O Nanak, obtains the fruits of his 
mind‟s desires.  || 1 ||   Through the Guru‟s Teachings, the Nectar abides within the 
mind, O my soul; with your mouth, chants the words of Ambrosia. The Words of the 
devotees are Ambrosial Nectar, O my soul; hear them in the mind, and embrace loving 
affection for the Lord. Separated for so very long, I have found the Lord God, intuitively 
hugged in  His Loving Embrace. Servant Nanak‟s mind is filled with bliss, O my soul, 
vibrating the unstruck Sound-current of the Shabad.  || 2 ||   If only my friends and 
companions would come and unite me with my Lord God, O my soul. I dedicate my 
mind to one who recites the sermon of my Lord God, O my soul. As Gurmukh, worship 
the Lord in adoration forever, O my soul, and you shall obtain the fruits of your mind‟s 
desires. O Nanak, hurry to the Lord‟s Sanctuary, O my soul; those who meditate on the 
Lord‟s Name are very fortunate.  || 3 ||   By His Grace, God comes to meet us, O my 
soul; through the Guru‟s Teachings, His Name is revealed. Without the Lord, I am so 
sad, O my soul — as sad as the lotus without water. The Perfect Guru, O my soul, has 
united me with the Lord, my best Friend, the Lord God. Blessed, blessed is the Guru, 
who has shown me the Lord, O my soul; servant Nanak blossoms forth in the Name of 
the Lord.  || 4 || 1 ||   RAAG BIHAAGRAA,  FOURTH MEHL:  The Name of the Lord, Har, 
Har,  is  Ambrosial  Nectar,  O  my  soul;  through  the  Guru‟s  Teachings,  this  Nectar  is 
obtained. Egotism and Maya are poison, O my soul; through the Ambrosial Nectar of the 
Name, this poison is eradicated. The dry mind is rejuvenated, O my soul, meditating on 
the Name of the Lord, Har, Har. The Lord has given the pre-ordained blessing of high 
destiny, O my soul; servant Nanak merges in the Naam, the Name of the Lord.  || 1 ||   
My mind is attached to the Lord, O my soul, like the infant, sucking his mother‟s milk. 
Without the Lord, I find no peace, O my soul, like the song-bird, crying without the rain-
drops. Go, and seek the Sanctuary of the True Guru, O my soul; He shall tell you of the 
Glorious Virtues of the Lord God. Servant Nanak has merged with the Lord, O my soul; 
the harmonic vibrations of the Shabad resound within the heart.  || 2 ||   The self-willed 
manmukhs  are  consigned  to  separation  by  their  own  egotism,  O  my  soul;  bound  to 
poison, they are burnt by egotism. Like the pigeon, which itself falls into the trap, O my 
soul, all the self-willed manmukhs fall under the influence of death. Those who focus 
their consciousness on emotional attachment to Maya, O my soul — those self-willed 
manmukhs are foolish demons.  