ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  549  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
The  Lord  makes  His  devotees  His  own,  and  resolves  their  affairs.  The  self-willed 
manmukhs  have  been  led  astray  from  the  very  beginning;  within  them  lurks  greed, 
avarice and egotism. Their nights and days pass in argument and conflict; they do not 
contemplate the Word of the Shabad. The Creator has taken away their common sense 
and understanding, and all their speech is corrupt. No matter what they are given, they 
are not satisfied; within them is desire, and the great darkness of ignorance. O Nanak, 
it is right to break with the self-willed manmukhs; to them, emotional attachment to 
Maya is sweet.  || 1 ||   THIRD MEHL:  What can fear and skepticism do to those, who 
have given their heads to the Creator, and to the True Guru? The Protector Himself has 
protected  their  honor  from  the  beginning  of  time.  Meeting  their  Beloved,  they  find 
peace; they contemplate the True Word of the Shabad. O Nanak, I serve the Giver of 
peace; He Himself is the Assessor.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  All beings and creatures are 
Yours; You are the wealth of all. One unto whom You give, obtains everything; there is 
no one else to rival You. You alone are the Great Giver of all; I offer my prayer to You, 
Lord.  One  with  whom  You  are  pleased,  is  accepted  by  You;  how  blessed  is  such  a 
person! Your wondrous play is pervading everywhere. Pain and pleasure are with You.  
|| 2 ||   SHALOK,  THIRD MEHL:  The Gurmukhs are pleasing to the True Lord; they are 
judged to be true in the True Court. The minds of such friends are filled with bliss, as 
they  contemplate  the  Word  of  the  Guru‟s  Shabad.  They  enshrine  the  Shabad  deep 
within; their pain is dispelled, and the Creator blesses them with the Divine Light. O 
Nanak,  the  Savior  Lord  shall  save  them,  and  shower  them  with  His  Mercy.    ||  1  ||   
THIRD MEHL:  Serve the Guru, and wait upon Him; as you work, maintain the Fear of 
God. As you serve Him, you will become like Him, if you walk in harmony with His Will. 
O Nanak, He Himself is everything; there is no other place to go.  || 2 ||   PAUREE:  
You alone know Your greatness — there is no one else as great as You. If there were 
some other rival as great as You, then I would speak of him. You alone are as great as 
You are. One who serves You finds peace; who else can compare to You? You are all-
powerful to destroy and create, O Great Giver; all stand begging before You, with their 
palms pressed together. I see none as great as You, O Great Giver; You give in charity 
to the beings of all the continents, worlds, solar systems, nether regions and universes.  
||  3  ||      SHALOK,    THIRD  MEHL:    O  mind,  you  have  no  faith,  and  you  have  not 
embraced love for the Celestial Lord. You do not enjoy the sublime taste of the Shabad 
— what Praises of the Lord will you stubborn-mindedly sing? O Nanak, one‟s coming 
into  the  world  is  approved,  if,  as  Gurmukh,  he  merges  into  the  True  Lord.    ||  1  ||   
THIRD MEHL:  The fool does not understand his own self; he annoys others with his 
speech.  His  underlying  nature  does  not  leave  him;  separated  from  the  Lord,  he  is 
beaten. He has not changed and reformed himself in Fear of the True Guru, so that he 
might merge in the lap of God.  