ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  566  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
When there is Truth deep within, then one becomes True, and obtains the True Lord. 
Without pre-ordained destiny, awareness is not attained; talking and babbling, one‟s life 
is wasted away. Wherever you go and sit, speak well, and write the Word of the Shabad 
in your awareness. Why bother to wash the body which is polluted by falsehood?  || 1 
||   When I spoke, I spoke as You made me speak. The Ambrosial Name of the Lord is 
pleasing to my mind. The Naam, the Name of the Lord, seems so sweet to my mind; it 
has destroyed the house of pain. Peace came to dwell in my mind, when You gave the 
Order. It is Yours to grant Your Grace, and it is mine to speak this prayer; You created 
Yourself. When I spoke, I spoke as You made me speak.  || 2 ||   The Lord and Master 
gives us our turn, according to the deeds we have done. Don‟t speak ill of others, or get 
involved in arguments. Don‟t get into arguments with your Lord and Master — you shall 
only ruin yourself. If you challenge the One, with whom you must abide, you will only 
cry in the end. Accept and endure what God gives you; tell your mind not to complain in 
vain. The Lord and Master gives us our turn, according to the deeds we have done.  || 
3 ||   He Himself created all, and He blesses them with His Glance of Grace. No one 
asks for that which is bitter; everyone asks for sweets. Let everyone ask for sweets and 
see that it is as the Lord and Master wills. Giving donations to charity and performing 
various religious rituals are not equal to contemplation of the Naam. O Nanak, those 
who are blessed with the Naam have such karma pre-ordained. He Himself created all, 
and He blesses them with His Glance of Grace.  || 4 || 1 ||   WADAHANS,  FIRST MEHL:  
Show mercy to me, that I may chant Your Name. You Yourself created all, and You are 
permeating all. You Yourself are permeating all, and You enjoin them to their tasks. 
Some,  You  have  made  kings,  while  others  wander  around  begging.  You  have  made 
greed and emotional  attachment seem sweet; they  are deluded by this delusion. Be 
forever merciful to me; only then can I chant Your Name.  || 1 ||   Your Name is True, 
and forever pleasing to my mind. My pain is dispelled, and I am permeated with peace. 
The angels, the mortal beings, the wise and the enlightened sing of You. The angels, 
the mortal beings, the wise and the enlightened sing of You; they are pleasing to Your 
Mind.  Enticed  by  Maya,  they  do not remember; they  waste away  their  lives in  vain. 
Some  fools  and  idiots  never  remember;  whoever  has  come,  shall  have  to  go.  Your 
Name is forever True, and pleasing to my mind.  || 2 ||   Beauteous and blessed is Your 
time; the Bani of Your Word is Ambrosial Nectar. Your servants serve You with love; 
these mortals are attached to Your taste. Those mortals are attached to Your taste, who 
are blessed with the Ambrosial Name. Those who are attuned to Your Name prosper 
more and more, day by day. Some do not practice good deeds or live righteously; they 
do not practice self-discipline, and they do not realize the One. Forever blessed and 
beauteous is Your time; the Bani of Your Word is Ambrosial Nectar.  || 3 ||    