ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ  581  ÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓÓ 
 
I too have been defrauded, chasing after worldly entanglements; my Husband Lord has 
forsaken me — I act like a wife without a spouse. In each and every home, are the 
brides  of  the  Husband  Lord;  they  gaze  upon  their  handsome  Lord  with  love  and 
affection. I sing the Praises of my True Husband Lord; through the Naam, the Name of 
my Husband Lord, I blossom forth.  || 7 ||   Meeting with the Guru, the soul-bride‟s 
dress is transformed, and she is adorned with Truth. Come and meet with me, O brides 
of the Lord; let‟s meditate in remembrance on the Creator Lord. Through the Naam, the 
soul-bride becomes the Lord‟s favorite; she is adorned with Truth. Don‟t sing the songs 
of separation, O Nanak — reflect upon God.  || 8 || 3 ||   WADAHANS,  FIRST MEHL:  
The One who creates and dissolves the world — that Lord and Master alone knows His 
creative power. Do not search for the True Lord far away; recognize the Word of His 
Shabad in each and every heart. Recognize the True Word of the Shabad, and do not 
think that the Lord is far away; He created this creation. Meditating on the Naam, the 
Name of the Lord, peace is obtained; without the Naam, it is a losing game. The One 
who established the Universe — He alone knows the Way; what can anyone say? The 
One  who  established  the  world  cast  the  net  over  it;  accept  Him  as  your  Lord  and 
Master.  || 1 ||   O Baba, they have come, and now they must get up and depart; this 
world  is  only  a  way-station.  Upon  each  and  every  head,  the  True  Lord  writes  their 
destiny  of  pain  and  pleasure,  according  to  their  past  actions.  He  bestows  pain  and 
pleasure, according to the deeds done; the record of these actions stays with the soul. 
They do those deeds which the Creator Lord causes them to do; they attempt no other 
actions. The Lord Himself is detached, while the world is entangled in conflict; by His 
Command,  He  emancipates  it.  They  may  put  this  off  today,  but  tomorrow  they  are 
seized by death; in love with duality, they practice corruption.  || 2 ||   The path of 
death  is  dark  and  dismal;  the  way  cannot  be  seen.  There  is  no  water,  no  quilt  or 
mattress, and no food there. There is no food there, no honor or water, no clothes or 
decorations. The chain is put around one‟s neck, and the Messenger of Death standing 
over his head strikes him; he cannot see the door of his home. The seeds planted on 
this path do not sprout; bearing the load of sin on his head, he regrets and repents. 
Without the True Lord, no one is his friend; reflect upon this as true.  || 3 ||   O Baba, 
they alone are known to weep and wail, who meet together and weep, chanting the 
Praises of the Lord. Defrauded by Maya and worldly affairs, the weepers weep. They 
weep for the sake of worldly affairs, and they do not wash off their own filth; the world 
is  a  dream.  Like  the  juggler,  deceiving  by  his  tricks,  one  is  deluded  by  egotism, 
falsehood and illusion. The Lord Himself reveals the Path; He Himself is the Doer of 
deeds.  Those  who  are  imbued  with  the  Naam are protected by the Perfect Guru. O 
Nanak, they merge in celestial bliss.  || 4 || 4 ||   WADAHANS,  FIRST MEHL:  O Baba, 
whoever has come, will rise up and leave; this world is a false show. One‟s true home is 
obtained by serving the True One; real Truth comes by being truthful. By falsehood and 
greed, no place of rest is found, and no place in the world hereafter is obtained. No one 
invites him to come in and sit down — he is like a crow in a deserted house. Caught in 
birth and death, separated from God for such a long time, the whole world is wasting 
away. Greed, worldly entanglements and Maya deceive the world.  