praises, standing, sitting down, or lying down on your sides; but when ye are free from danger, 
set up regular Prayers: for such Prayers are enjoined on Believers at stated times. -104- And 
slacken not in following up the enemy: if ye are suffering hardships, they are suffering similar 
hardships; but ye have hope from Allah, while they have none. And Allah is full of knowledge 
and wisdom. -105- We have sent down to thee the book in truth, that thou mightest judge 
between men, as guided by Allah: so be not (used) as an advocate by those who betray their 
trust; -106- But seek the forgiveness of Allah; for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -107- 
Contend not on behalf of such as betray their own souls; for Allah loveth not one given to perfidy 
and crime; -108- They may hide (their crimes) from men, but they cannot hide (them) from Allah, 
seeing that he is in their midst when they plot by night, in words that he cannot approve: and 
Allah doth compass round all that they do. -109- Ah these are the sort of men on whose behalf 
ye may contend in this world; but who will contend with Allah on their behalf on the day of 
judgment, or who will carry their affairs through?  
32  
-110- If any one does evil or wrongs his own soul but afterwards seeks Allah's forgiveness, he 
will find Allah Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -111- And if any one earns sin, he earns it against his 
own soul: for Allah is full of knowledge and wisdom. -112- But if any one earns a fault or a sin 
and throws it on to one that is innocent, he carries (on himself) (both) a falsehood and a flagrant 
sin. -113- But for the Grace of Allah to thee and his mercy, a party of them would certainly have 
plotted to lead thee astray. But (in fact) they will only lead their own souls astray, and to thee 
they can do no harm in the least. For Allah hath sent down to thee the book and wisdom and 
taught thee what thou knewest not (before): and great is the Grace of Allah unto thee. -114- In 
most of their secret talks there is no good: but if one exhorts to a deed of Charity or justice or 
conciliation between men, (secrecy is permissible): to him who does this, seeking the good 
pleasure of Allah, we shall soon give a reward of the highest (value). -115- If anyone contends 
with the Messenger even after Guidance has been plainly conveyed to him, and follows a path 
other than that becoming to men of Faith, we shall leave him in the path he has chosen, and 
land him in Hell- what an evil refuge! -116- Allah forgiveth not (the sin of) joining other gods with 
him; but he forgiveth whom he pleaseth other sins than this: one who joins other gods with 
Allah, hath strayed far, far away (from the right). -117- (the pagans), leaving him, call but upon 
female deities: they call but upon Satan the persistent rebel -118- Allah did curse him, but he 
said: I will take of thy servants a portion marked off; -119- I will mislead them, and I will create in 
them false desires; I will order them to slit the ears of cattle, and to deface the (fair) nature 
created by Allah. Whoever, forsaking Allah, takes Satan for a friend, hath of a surety suffered a 
loss that is manifest. -120- Satan makes them promises, and creates in them false desires; but 
Satan's promises are nothing but deception. -121- They (his dupes) will have their dwelling in 
Hell, and from it they will find no way of escape. -122- But those who believe and do deeds of 