blasphemy. But sorrow thou not over (these) people without Faith. -69- Those who believe (in 
the Quran), those who follow the Jewish (scriptures), and the Sabians and the Christians, any 
who believe in Allah and the Last Day, and the work righteousness, on them shall be no fear, 
nor shall they grieve. -70- We took the Covenant of the Children of Israel and sent them 
Messengers. Every time there came to them a Messenger with what they themselves desired 
not- some (of these) they called impostors, and some they (go so far as to) slay. -71- They 
thought there would be no trial (for punishment); so they became blind and deaf; yet Allah (in 
mercy) turned to them; yet again many of them became blind and deaf. But Allah sees well all 
that they do. -72- They do blaspheme who say: "Allah is Christ the son of Mary." But said Christ: 
"O Children of Israel! worship Allah, my Lord and your Lord." Whoever joins other gods with 
Allah- Allah will forbid him the Garden, and the fire will be his abode. There will for the 
wrongdoers be no one to help. -73- They do blaspheme who say: Allah is one of three in a 
trinity: for there is no god except One God. If they desist not from their word (of blasphemy), 
verily a grievous penalty will befall the blasphemers among them. -74- Why turn they not to 
Allah, and seek his forgiveness? for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.  
40  
-75- Christ, the son of Mary, was no more than a Messenger; many were the Messengers that 
passed away before him. His mother was a woman of truth. They had both to eat their (daily) 
food. See how Allah doth make his Signs clear to them; yet see in what ways they are deluded 
away from the truth! -76- Say: "Will ye worship besides Allah, something which hath no power 
either to harm or benefit you? But Allah- He it is that heareth and knoweth all things." -77- Say: 
"O People of the Book! exceed not in your religion the bounds (of what is proper), trespassing 
beyond the truth, nor follow the vain desires of people who went wrong in times gone by- who 
misled many, and strayed (themselves) from the even Way.  
-78- Curses were pronounced on those among the Children of Israel who rejected Faith, by the 
tongue of David and of Jesus the son of Mary: because they disobeyed and persisted in 
excesses. -79- Nor did they (usually) forbid one another the iniquities which they committed: evil 
indeed were the deeds which they did. -80- Thou seest many of them turning in friendship to the 
Unbelievers. Evil indeed are (the works) which their souls have sent forward before them (with 
the result), that Allah's wrath is on them, and in torment will they abide. -81- If only they had 
believed in Allah, in the Prophet, and in what hath been revealed to him, never would they have 
taken them for friends and protectors, but most of them are rebellious wrongdoers. -82- 
Strongest among men in enmity to the Believers wilt thou find the Jews and Pagans; and 
nearest among them in love to the Believers wilt thou find those who say, we are Christians: 
because amongst these are men devoted to learning and men who have renounced the world, 
and they are not arrogant. 7th Section (Juzu') -83- And when they listen to the revelation 
received by the Messenger, thou wilt see their eyes overflowing with tears, for they recognize 