them: for they showed a great (feat of) magic. -117- We put it into Moses's mind by inspiration: 
throw (now) thy rod: and behold it swallows up straightway all the falsehoods which they fake 
-118- Thus truth was confirmed and all that they did was made of no effect. -119- So the (great 
ones) were vanquished there and then and were made to look small. -120- But the sorcerers fell 
down prostrate in adoration. -121- Saying: we believe in the Lord of the worlds, -122- The Lord 
of Moses and Aaron. -123- Said Pharaoh: believe ye in him before I give you permission? 
Surely this is a trick which ye have planned in the city to drive out its people: but soon shall ye 
know (the consequences). -124- Be sure I will cut off your hands and your feet on opposite 
sides, and I will cause you all to die on the cross. -125- They said: for us, we are but sent back 
unto our Lord: -126- But thou dost wreak thy vengeance on us simply because we believed in 
the Signs of our Lord when they reached us our Lord pour out on us patience and constancy, 
and take our souls unto thee as Muslims (who bow to thy will) -127- Said the chiefs of Pharaoh's 
people: wilt thou leave Moses and his people, to spread mischief in the land, and to abandon 
thee and thy Gods? he said: their male children will we slay; (only) their females will we save 
alive; and we have over them (power) irresistible. -128- Said Moses to his people: pray for help 
from Allah, and (wait) in patience and constancy: for the earth is Allah's to give as a heritage to 
such of His servants as He pleaseth; and the end is (best) for the righteous. -129- They said: we 
have had (nothing but) trouble, both before and after thou comest to us. He said: it may be that 
your Lord will destroy your enemy and make you inheritors in the earth; that so He may try you 
by your deeds. -130- We punished the people of Pharaoh with years (of drought) and shortness 
of crops; that they might receive admonition. -131- But when good (times) came, they said, this 
is due to us; when gripped by calamity, they ascribed it to evil omens connected with Moses and 
those with him behold in truth the omens of evil are theirs in Allah's sight, but most of them do 
not understand -132- They said (to Moses): whatever be the Signs thou bringest, to work 
therewith thy sorcery on us, we shall never believe in thee. -133- So we sent (plagues) on them: 
wholesale death, Locusts, Lice, Frogs, and blood: Signs openly self explained: but they were 
steeped in arrogance, a people given to sin. -134- Every time the penalty fell on them, they said: 
O Moses on our behalf call on thy Lord in virtue of his promise to thee: if thou wilt remove the 
penalty from us, we shall truly believe in thee, and we shall send away the Children of Israel 
with thee. -135- But every time we removed the penalty from them according to a fixed term 
which they had to fulfil, behold they broke their word -136- So we exacted retribution from them: 
we drowned them in the sea, because they rejected our Signs, and failed to take warning from 
them. -137- And we made a people, considered weak (and of no account), inheritors of lands in 
both east and west, lands whereon we sent down our blessings. The fair promise of thy Lord 
was fulfilled for  
57  
the children odd Israel, because they had patience and constancy, and we leveled to the ground 