increasing in unbelief, Allah will not forgive them nor guide them on the way. -138- To the 
Hypocrites give the glad tidings that there is for them (but) a grievous penalty; -139- Yea, to 
those who take for friends Unbelievers rather than Believers: is it honour they seek among 
them? nay, all honour is with Allah. -140- Already has he sent you word in the book, that when 
ye hear the Signs of Allah held in defiance and ridicule, ye are not to sit with them unless they 
turn to a different theme: if ye did, ye would be like them. For Allah will collect the Hypocrites 
and those who defy Faith all in Hell; -141- (these are) the ones who wait and watch about you: if 
ye do gain a victory from Allah, they say: were we not with you? but if the Unbelievers gain a 
success, they say (to them): did we not gain an advantage over you, and did we not guard you 
from the Believers? but Allah will judge betwixt you on the day of judgment. And never will Allah 
grant to the Unbelievers a way (to triumph) over the Believers. -142- The Hypocrites they think 
they are over reaching Allah, but he will over reach them: when they stand up to prayer, they 
stand without earnestness, to be seen of men, but little do they hold Allah in remembrance; 
-143- (they are) distracted in mind even in the midst of it, being (sincerely) for neither one group 
nor for another. Whom Allah leaves straying, never will thou find for him the way. -144- O ye 
who believe take not for friends Unbelievers rather than Believers: do ye wish to offer Allah an 
open proof against yourselves? -145- The Hypocrites will be in the lowest depths of the fire: no 
helper wilt thou find for them; -146- Except for those who repent, mend (their life), hold fast to 
Allah, and purify their religion as in Allah's sight: if so they will be (numbered) with the Believers. 
And soon will Allah grant to the Believers a reward of immense value. -147- What can Allah gain 
by your punishment, if ye are grateful and ye believe? nay, it is Allah that recogniseth (all good), 
and knoweth all things. 6th Section (Juzu') -148- Allah loveth not that evil should be noised 
abroad in public speech, except where injustice hath been done; for Allah is He Who heareth 
and knoweth all things. -149- Whether ye publish a good deed or conceal it or cover evil with 
pardon, verily Allah doth blot out (sins) and hath power (in the judgment of values). -150- Those 
who deny Allah and His Messengers, and (those who) wish to separate Allah from His 
Messengers, saying: "We believe in some but reject others": and (those who) wish to take a 
course midway- -151- They are in truth (equally) Unbelievers; and we have prepared for 
Unbelievers a humiliating punishment.  
34  
-152- To those who believe in Allah and His Messengers and make no distinction between any 
of the Messengers, we shall soon give their (due) rewards: for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most 
Merciful. -153- The People of the Book ask thee to cause a book to descend to them from 
heaven: indeed they asked Moses for an even greater (miracle), for they said: show us Allah in 
public, but they were dazed for their presumption, with thunder and lightning. Yet they 
worshipped the calf even after Clear Signs had come to them; even so we forgave them; and 
gave Moses manifest proofs of authority. -154- And for their Covenant we raised over them (the 
towering height) of mount (Sinai); and (on another occasion) we said: enter the gate with 