your case! -135- They say: "Become Jews or Christians if ye would be guided (to salvation)." 
Say thou: "Nay! (I would rather) the Religion of Abraham, the True, and he joined not gods with 
Allah." -136- Say ye: "We believe in Allah, and the revelation given to us, and to Abraham, 
IsmaTil, Isaac, Jacob, and the Tribes, and that given to Moses and Jesus, and that given to (all) 
Prophets from their Lord: we make no difference between one and another of them: and we bow 
to Allah (in Islam). -137- So if they believe as ye believe, they are indeed on the right path; but if 
they turn back, it is they who are in schism; but Allah will suffice thee as against them, and He is 
the All-Hearing, the All- Knowing. -138- (Our religion is) the Baptism of Allah: and who can 
baptize better than Allah? And it is He Whom we worship.  
7  
-139- Say: will ye dispute with us about Allah, seeing that He is our Lord and your Lord; that we 
are responsible for our doings and ye for yours; and that we are sincere (in our Faith) in Him? 
-140- Or do ye say that Abraham, IsmaTil, Isaac, Jacob and the Tribes were Jews or 
Christians? Say: Do ye know better than Allah? Ah! who is more unjust than those who conceal 
the testimony they have from Allah? But Allah is not unmindful of what ye do! -141- That was a 
people that hath passed away. They shall reap the fruit of what they did, and ye of what ye do! 
Of their merits there is no question in your case: 2nd Section (Juzu') -142- The fools among the 
people will say: "What hath turned them from the Qiblah to which they were used?" Say: "To 
Allah belong both East and West: He guideth whom He will to a Way that is straight." -143- Thus 
have We made of you an Ummah justly balanced, that ye might be witnesses over the nations, 
and the Messenger a witness over yourselves; and We appointed the Qiblah to which thou wast 
used, only to test those who followed the Messenger from those who would turn on their heels 
(from the Faith). Indeed it was (a change) momentous, except to those guided by Allah. And 
never would Allah make your faith of no effect. For Allah is to all people most surely full of 
kindness, Most Merciful. -144- We see the turning of thy face (for guidance) to the heavens: 
now shall We turn thee to a Qiblah that shall please thee. Turn then thy face in the direction of 
the Sacred Mosque: wherever ye are, turn your faces in that direction. The People of the Book 
know well that is the truth from their Lord, nor is Allah unmindful of what they do. -145- Even if 
thou wert to bring to the People of the Book all the Signs (together), they would not follow thy 
Qiblah; nor art thou going to follow their Qiblah; nor indeed will they follow each other's Qiblah. If 
thou after the knowledge hath reached thee, wert to follow their (vain) desires - then wert thou 
indeed (clearly) in the wrong. -146- The People of the Book know this as they know their own 
sons, but some of them conceal the truth which they themselves know. -147- The truth is from 
thy Lord; so be not at all in doubt. -148- To each is a goal to which Allah turns him; then strive 
together (as in a race) towards all that is good. Wheresoever ye are, Allah will bring you 
together. For Allah hath power over all things. -149- From whencesoever thou startest forth, turn 
thy face in the direction of the Sacred Mosque; that is indeed the truth from thy Lord. And Allah 
is not unmindful of what ye do. -150- So from whencesoever thou startest forth, turn thy face in 