between them. For Allah loveth those who judge in equity. -43- But why do they come to thee 
for decision, when they have (their own) law before them? therein is the (plain) command of 
Allah; yet even after that, they would turn away. For they are not (really) people of Faith. -44- It 
was we who revealed the law (to Moses): therein was guidance and light. By its standard have 
been judged the Jews, by the prophets who bowed (as in Islam) to Allah's will, by the rabbis and 
the doctors of law: for to them was entrusted the protection of Allah's book, and they were 
witnesses thereto: therefore fear not men, but fear me, and sell not my Signs for a miserable 
price. If any do fail to judge by (the light of) what Allah hath revealed, they are (no better than) 
Unbelievers. -45- We ordained therein for them: life for life, eye for eye, nose for nose, ear for 
ear, tooth for tooth, and wounds equal for equal. But if any one remits the retaliation by way of 
Charity, it is an act of atonement for himself. And if any fail to judge by (the light of) what Allah 
hath revealed, they are (no better than) wrongdoers. -46- And in their footsteps we sent Jesus 
the son of Mary, confirming the law that had come before him: we sent him the gospel: therein 
was guidance and light, and confirmation of the law that had come before him: a guidance and 
an admonition to those who fear Allah. -47- Let the people of the gospel judge by what Allah 
hath revealed therein. If any do fail to judge by (the light of) what Allah hath revealed, they are 
(no better than) those who rebel. -48- To thee we sent the scripture in truth, confirming the 
scripture that came before it, and guarding it in safety: so judge between them by what Allah 
hath revealed, and follow not their vain desires, diverging from the truth that hath come to thee. 
To each among you have we prescribed a law and an open way. If Allah had so willed. He 
would have made you a single people, but (his plan is) to test you in what he hath given you: so 
strive as in a race in all virtues. The goal of you all is to Allah; it is he that will show you the truth 
of the matters in which ye dispute; -49- And this (he commands): judge thou between them by 
what Allah hath revealed, and follow not their vain desires, but beware of them lest they beguile 
thee from any of that (teaching) which Allah hath sent down to thee. And if they turn away, be 
assured that for some of their crimes it is Allah's purpose to punish them. And truly most men 
are rebellious. -50- Do they then seek after a judgment of (the days of) ignorance? but who, for 
a people whose Faith is assured, can give better judgment than Allah? -51- O ye who believe 
take not the Jews and the Christians for your friends and protectors: they are but friends and 
protectors to each other. And he amongst you that turns to them (for friendship) is of them. 
Verily Allah guideth not a people unjust. -52- Those in whose hearts is a disease thou seest how 
eagerly they run about amongst them, saying: we do fear lest a change of fortune bring us 
disaster. Ah perhaps Allah will give (thee) victory, or a decision according to his will. Then will 
they repent of the thoughts which they secretly harbored in their hearts. -53- And those who 
believe will say: are these the men who swore their strongest oaths by Allah, that they were with 
you? all that they do will be in vain. And they will fall into (nothing but) ruin. -54- O ye who 
believe if any from among you turn back from his Faith, soon will Allah produce a people whom 
He will love as they will love Him, lowly with the Believers, mighty against the rejecters, fighting 
in the way of Allah, and never afraid of the reproaches of such as find fault. That is the Grace of 