the truth: they pray: "Our Lord! we believe; write us down among the witnesses. -84- "What 
cause can we have not to believe in Allah and the truth which has come to us, seeing that we 
long for our Lord to admit us to the company of the righteous?" -85- And for this their prayer 
hath Allah rewarded them with Gardens, with rivers flowing underneath- their eternal home. 
Such is the recompense of those who do good. -86- But those who reject Faith and belie our 
Signs- they shall be companions of Hell-fire. -87- O ye who believe! make not unlawful the good 
things which Allah hath made lawful for you, but commit no excess: for Allah loveth not those 
given to excess. -88- Eat of the things which Allah hath provided for you, lawful and good; but 
fear Allah, in whom ye believe. -89- Allah will not call you to account for what is futile in your 
oaths, but he will call you to account for you deliberate oaths: for expiation, feed ten indigent 
persons, on a scale of the average for the food of your families; or clothe them; or give a slave 
his freedom. If that is beyond your means, fast for three days. That is the expiation for the oaths 
ye have sworn. But keep to your oaths. Thus doth Allah make clear to you his sign, that ye may 
be grateful. -90- Ye who believe intoxicants and gambling, (dedication of) stones, and 
(divination by) arrows, are an abomination, of Satan's handiwork: eschew such (abomination), 
that ye may prosper. -91- Satan's plan is (but) to excite enmity and hatred between you, with 
intoxicants and gambling, and hinder you from the remembrance of Allah, and from prayer: will 
ye not then abstain? -92- Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and beware (of evil): if ye do 
turn back, know ye that it is our Messenger's duty to proclaim (the Message) in the clearest 
manner. -93- On those who believe and do deeds of righteousness there is no blame for what 
they ate (in the past), when they guard themselves from evil, and believe, and do deeds of 
righteousness, (or) again, guard themselves from evil and believe, (or) again, guard themselves 
from evil and do good. For Allah loveth those who do good. -94- Ye who believe Allah doth but 
make a trial of you in a little matter of game well within reach of your hands and your lances, 
that he may test who feareth him unseen: any who transgress thereafter, will have a grievous 
penalty.  
41  
-95- O ye who believe kill not game while in the sacred precincts or in pilgrim garb. If any of you 
doth so intentionally, the compensation is an offering, brought to the Kaba, of a domestic animal 
equivalent to the one who killed, as adjudged by two just men among you; or by way of 
atonement, the feeding of the indigent; or its equivalent in fasts: that he may taste of the penalty 
of his deed. Allah forgives what is past: for repetition Allah will exact from him the penalty. For 
Allah is exalted, and Lord of retribution. -96- Lawful to you is the pursuit of water game and its 
use for food, for the benefit of yourselves and those who travel; but forbidden is the pursuit of 
land game; as long as ye are in the sacred precincts or in pilgrim garb. And fear Allah, to whom 
ye shall be gathered back. -97- Allah made the Kaba, the sacred house, an asylum of security 
of men as also the sacred months, the animals for offerings, and the garlands that mark them: 
that ye may know that Allah hath knowledge of what is in the heavens and on earth and that 