disclose to you the secrets of the unseen, but He chooses of His Messengers (for the purpose) 
whom He pleases. So believe in Allah and His Messengers; and if ye believe and do right, ye 
have a reward without measure. -180- And let not those who covetously withhold of the gifts 
which Allah hath given them of his Grace, think that it is good for them: nay, it will be the worse 
for them: soon shall the things which they covetously withheld be tied to their necks like a 
twisted collar, on the day of judgment. To Allah belongs the heritage of the heavens and the 
earth; and Allah is well acquainted with all that ye do. -181- Allah hath heard the taunt of those 
who say: truly, Allah is indigent and we are rich we shall certainly record their word and (their 
act) of slaying the prophets in defiance of right, and we shall say: that ye the penalty of the 
scorching fire -182- This is because of the (unrighteous deeds) which your hands sent on before 
ye: for Allah never harms those who serve him. -183- They (also) said: "Allah took our promise 
not to believe in a Messenger unless He showed us a sacrifice consumed by fire (from 
heaven)." Say: "There came to you Messengers before me, with Clear Signs and even with 
what ye ask for: why then did ye slay them, if ye speak the truth?" -184- Then if they reject thee, 
so were rejected messengers before thee, who came with Clear Signs, and the Scriptures, and 
the Book of Enlightenment. -185- Every soul shall have a taste of death: and only on the Day of 
Judgment shall you be paid your full recompense. Only he who is saved far from the Fire and 
admitted to the Garden will have attained the object (of Life): for the life of this world is but good 
and chattels of deception. -186- Ye shall certainly be tried and tested in your possessions and in 
your personal selves; and ye shall certainly hear much that will grieve you, from those who 
received the book before you and from those who worship many gods. But if ye persevere 
patiently, and guard against evil, then that will be a determining factor in all affairs.  
25  
-187- And remember Allah took a Covenant from the People of the Book, to make it known and 
clear to mankind, and not to hide it; but they threw it away behind their backs, and purchased 
with it some miserable gain and vile was the bargain they made -188- Think not that those who 
exult in what they have brought about, and love to be praised for what they have not done, think 
not that they can escape the penalty. For them is a penalty grievous indeed. -189- To Allah 
belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth; and Allah hath power over all things. 
-190- Behold in the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the alternation of night and day, 
there are indeed Signs for men of understanding, -191- Men who celebrate the praises of Allah, 
standing, sitting, and lying down on their sides, and contemplate the (wonders of) creation in the 
heavens and the earth, (with the thought): our Lord not for naught hast thou created (all) this 
glory to thee give us salvation from the penalty of the fire. -192- Our Lord any whom thou dost 
admit to fire, truly thou coverest with shame, and never will wrongdoers find any helpers -193- 
Our Lord we have heard the call of one calling (us) to Faith, believe ye in the Lord, and we have 
believed. Our Lord forgive us our sins, blot out from us our iniquities, and take to thyself our 