ye not then understand? -52- And O my people ask forgiveness of your Lord, and turn to him (in 
repentance): he will send you the skies pouring abundant rain, and add strength to your 
strength: so turn ye not back in sin -53- They said: O Hud no clear (sign) hast thou brought us, 
and we are not the ones to desert our gods on thy word nor shall we believe in thee -54- We say 
nothing but that (perhaps) some of our gods may have seized thee with imbecility. He said: I call 
Allah to witness, and do ye bear witness, that I am free from the sin of ascribing, to him, -55- 
Other gods as partners so scheme (your worst) against me, all of you, and give me no respite. 
-56- I put my trust in Allah, my Lord and your Lord there is not a moving creature, but he hath 
grasp of its fore lock. Verily, it is my Lord that is on a straight path. -57- If ye turn away, I (at 
least) have conveyed the message with which I was sent to you. My Lord will make another 
people to succeed you, and you will not harm him in the least. For my Lord hath care and watch 
over all things. -58- So when our decree issued, we saved Hud and those who believed with 
him, by (special) Grace from ourselves: we saved them from a severe penalty. -59- Such were 
the TAd people: they rejected the Signs of their Lord and Cherisher; disobeyed His Messengers; 
and followed the command of every powerful, obstinate transgressor. -60- And they were 
pursued by a Curse in this Life- and on the Day of Judgment. Ah! Behold! For the TAd rejected 
their Lord and Cherisher! Ah! Behold! Removed (from sight) were TAd, the people of Hud! -61- 
To the Thamud people (we sent) Salih, one of their own brethren. He said O my people worship 
Allah: ye have no other Allah but him. It is He Who hath produced you from the earth and settled 
you  
79  
therein: then ask forgiveness of him, and turn to him (in repentance): for my Lord is (always) 
near, ready to answer. -62- They said: O Salih thou hast been of us a centre of our hopes 
hitherto dost thou (now) forbid us the worship of what our fathers worshipped? but we are really 
in suspicious (disquieting) doubt as to that to which thou invitest us. -63- He said: O my people 
do ye see? if I have a clear (sign) from my Lord and he hath sent mercy unto me from Himself, 
who then can help me against Allah if I were to disobey him? what then would ye add to my 
(portion) but perdition? -64- And O my people this she camel of Allah is a symbol to you: leave 
her to feed on Allah's (free) earth, and inflict no harm on her, or a swift penalty will seize you 
-65- But they did ham string her. So he said: enjoy yourself in your homes for three days: (then 
will be your ruin): (behold) there a promise not to be belied -66- When our decree issued, we 
saved Salih and those who believed with him, by (special) Grace from ourselves and from the 
ignominy of that day. For thy Lord he is the strong one, and able to enforce his will. -67- The 
(mighty) blast overtook the wrongdoers, and they lay prostrate in their homes before the 
morning, -68- As if they had never dwelt and flourished there. Ah behold for the Thamud 
rejected their Lord and Cherisher! Ah! Behold! Removed (from sight) were the Thamud! -69- 
There came Our Messengers to Abraham with glad tidings. They said, "Peace!" He answered, 