(benefit) every one, we have appointed sharers and heirs to property left by parents and 
relatives. To those, also, to whom your right hand was pledged, give their due portion. For truly 
Allah is witness to all things. -34- Men are the protectors and maintainers of women, because 
Allah has given the one more (strength) than the other, and because they support them from 
their means. Therefore the righteous women are devoutly obedient, and guard in (the 
husband's) absence what Allah would have them guard. As to those women on whose part ye 
fear disloyalty and ill conduct, admonish them (first), (next), refuse to share their beds, (and last) 
beat them (lightly); but if they return to obedience, seek not against them means (of 
annoyance): for Allah is most high, great (above you all). -35- If ye fear a breach between them 
twain, appoint (two) arbiters, one from his family, and the other from hers; if they wish for peace, 
Allah will cause their reconciliation: for Allah hath full knowledge, and is acquainted with all 
things. -36- Serve Allah, and join not any partners with Him; and do good - to parents, kinsfolk, 
orphans, those in need, neighbours who are near, neighbours who are strangers, the 
Companion by your side,  
28  
the wayfarer (ye meet), and what your right hands possess; for Allah loveth not the arrogant, the 
vainglorious; -37- (nor) those who are niggardly or enjoin niggardliness on others, or hide the 
bounties which Allah hath bestowed on them; for we have prepared, for those who resist Faith, 
a punishment that steeps them in contempt; -38- Not those who spend of their substance, to be 
seen of men, but have no Faith in Allah and the Last Day: if any take the evil one for their 
intimate, what a dreadful intimate he is -39- And what burden were it on them if they had Faith in 
Allah and in the Last Day, and they spent out of what Allah hath given them for sustenance? for 
Allah hath full knowledge of them. -40- Allah is never unjust in the least degree: if there is any 
good (done), he doubleth it, and giveth from his own presence a great reward. -41- How then if 
we brought from each people a witness, and we brought thee as a witness against these people 
-42- On that day those who reject Faith and disobey the Messenger will wish that the earth were 
made one with them: but never will they hide a single fact from Allah! -43- O ye who believe! 
Approach not Prayers with a mind befogged, until ye can understand all that ye say, nor in a 
state of ceremonial impurity (except when travelling on the road), until after washing your whole 
body. If ye are ill, or on a journey, or one of you cometh from offices of nature, or ye have been 
in contact with women, and ye find no water, then take for yourselves clean sand or earth, and 
rub therewith your faces and hands. For Allah doth blot out sins and forgive again and again. 
-44- Last thou not turned thy vision to those who were given a portion of the book? they traffic in 
error, and wish that ye should lose the right path. -45- But Allah hath full knowledge of your 
enemies: Allah is enough for a protector, and Allah is enough for a helper. -46- Of the Jews 
there are those who displace words from their (right) places, and say: we hear and we disobey; 
and hear what is not heard; and Raina; with a twist of their tongues and a slander to Faith. If 
only they had said: we hear and we obey; and do look at us: it would have been better for them, 