souls in the company of the righteous. -194- "Our Lord! Grant us what Thou didst promise unto 
us through Thy Messengers, and save us from shame on the Day of Judgment; for Thou never 
breakest Thy promise." -195- And their Lord hath accepted of them, and answered them: "Never 
will I suffer to be lost the work of any of you, be he male or female: ye are members, one of 
another; those who have left their homes, or been driven out therefrom, or suffered harm in My 
Cause, or fought or been slain, verily, I will blot out from them their iniquities, and admit them 
into Gardens with rivers flowing beneath- a reward from the Presence of Allah, and from His 
Presence is the best of rewards." -196- Let not the strutting about of the Unbelievers through the 
land deceive thee; -197- Little is it for enjoyment: their ultimate abode is Hell: what an evil bed 
(to lie on) -198- On the other hand, for those who fear their Lord, are gardens, with rivers flowing 
beneath; therein are they to dwell (forever), a gift from the presence of Allah; and that which is 
in the presence of Allah is the best (bliss) for the righteous. -199- And there are, certainly, 
among the People of the Book, those who believe in Allah, in the revelation to you, and in the 
revelation to them, bowing in humility to Allah: they will not sell the Signs of Allah for a miserable 
gain for them is a reward with their Lord, and Allah is swift in account. -200- O ye who believe 
persevere in patience and constancy; vie in such perseverance; strengthen each other; and fear 
Allah; that ye may prosper.  
SURAH 4: AL NISA (The Women). -1- O mankind reverence your guardian Lord, who 
​
created you from a single person, created, of like nature, his mate, and from them twain 
scattered (like seeds) countless men and women; reverence Allah, through whom ye demand 
your mutual (rights), and (reverence) the wombs (that bore you): for Allah ever watches over 
you. -2- To orphans restore their property (when they reach their age), nor substitute (your) 
worthless things for (their) good ones; and devour not their substance (by mixing it up) with your 
own. For this is indeed a great sin. -3- If ye fear that ye shall not be able to deal justly with the 
orphans, marry women of your choice, two, or three, or four; but if ye fear that ye shall not be 
able to deal justly (with them). Then only one, or (a captive) that your right hands possess. That 
will be more suitable, to prevent you from doing injustice. -4- And give the women (on marriage) 
their dower as a free gift; but if they, of their own good pleasure, remit any part of it to you, take 
it and enjoy it with right good cheer.  
26  
-5- To those weak of understanding make not over your property, which Allah hath made a 
means of support for you, but feed and clothe them therewith, and speak to them words of 
kindness and justice. -6- Make trial of orphans until they reach the age of marriage; if then ye 
find sound judgment in them, release their property to them; but consume it not wastefully, nor 