wealth in the life of the present, and so, our Lord, they mislead (men) from thy path. Deface. Our 
Lord, the features of their wealth and send hardness to their hearts, so they will not believe until 
they see the grievous penalty. -89- Allah said: Accepted is your prayer (O Moses and Aaron) so 
stand ye straight, and follow not the path of those who know not. -90- We took the Children of 
Israel across the sea: Pharaoh and his hosts followed them in insolence and spite. At length, 
when overwhelmed with the flood, he said: I believe that there is no god except Him Whom the 
Children of Israel believe in: I am of those who submit (to Allah in Islam). -91- (It was said to 
him:) Ah now but a little while before, wast thou in rebellion and thou didst mischief (and 
violence) -92- This day shall we save thee in thy body, that thou mayest be a sign to those who 
come after thee but verily, many among mankind are heedless of our Signs! -93- We settled the 
Children of Israel in a beautiful dwelling place, and provided for them sustenance of the best: it 
was after knowledge had been granted to them, that them fell into schisms. Verily Allah will 
judge between them as to the schisms amongst them, on the day of judgment. -94- If thou wert 
in doubt as to what we have revealed unto thee, then ask those who have been reading the 
book from before thee: the truth hath indeed come to thee from thy Lord: so be in no wise of 
those in doubt. -95- Nor be of those who reject the Signs of Allah, or thou shalt be of those who 
perish. -96- Those against whom the word of thy Lord hath been verified would not believe- -97- 
Even if very sign was brought unto them, until they see (for themselves) the penalty grievous. 
-98- Why was there not a single township (among those we warned), which believed, so its 
Faith should have profited it, except the people of Jonah? when they believed, we removed from 
them the penalty of ignominy in the life of the present, and permitted them to enjoy (their life) for 
a while. -99- If it had been thy Lord's will, they would all have believed, all who are on earth wilt 
thou then compel mankind, against their will, to believe -100- No soul can believe, except by the 
will of Allah, and he will place doubt (or obscurity) on those who will not understand. -101- Say: 
behold all that is in the heavens and on earth; but neither Signs nor warners profit those who 
believe not. -102- Do they then except (any thing) but (what happened in) the days of the men 
who passed away before them? say: wait ye then: for I, too, will wait with you. -103- In the end 
We deliver our Messengers and those who believe: thus is it fitting on Our part that We should 
deliver those who believe! -104- Say: "O ye men! if ye are in doubt as to my religion, (behold!) I 
worship not what ye worship, other than Allah! But I worship Allah- who will take your souls (at 
death): I am commanded to be (in the ranks) of the Believers, -105- "And further (thus): 'set thy 
face towards Religion with true piety, and never in anywise be of the Unbelievers;  
76  
-106- "Nor call on any, other than Allah- such will neither profit thee nor hurt thee: if thou dost, 
behold! thou shalt certainly be of those who do wrong.' " -107- If Allah do touch thee with hurt, 
there is none can remove it but he: if he do design some benefit for thee, there is none can keep 
back his favour: he causeth it reach whomsoever of his servants he pleaseth. And he is the 