some good befalls them, they say, this is from Allah; but if evil, they say, this is from thee (O 
prophet). Say: all things are from Allah. But what hath come to these people, that they fail to 
understand a single fact? -79- Whatever good, (O man!) happens to thee, is from Allah; but 
whatever evil happens to thee, is from thy (own) soul. And We have sent thee as a Messenger 
to (instruct) mankind. And enough is Allah for a witness. -80- He who obeys the Messenger, 
obeys Allah: but if any turn away, We have not sent thee to watch over their (evil deeds). -81- 
They have obedience on their lips; but when they leave thee, a section of them meditate all 
night on things very different from what thou tellest them. But Allah records their nightly (plots): 
so keep clear of them, and put thy trust Allah, and enough is Allah. -82- Do they not consider 
the Quran (with care)? had it been from other than Allah, they would surely have found therein 
much discrepancy. -83- When there comes to them some matter touching (public) safety or fear, 
they divulge it. If they had only referred it to the Messenger, or to those charged with authority 
among them, the proper investigators would have tested it from them (direct). Were it not for the 
Grace and Mercy of Allah unto you, all but a few of you would have followed Satan. -84- Then 
fight in Allah's cause thou are held responsible only for thyself and rouse the Believers. It may 
be that Allah will restrain the fury of the Unbelievers; for Allah is the strongest in might and in 
punishment. -85- Whoever recommends and helps a good cause becomes a partner therein: 
and whoever recommends and helps an evil cause, shares in its burden: and Allah hath power 
over all things. -86- When a (courteous) greeting is offered you, meet it with a greeting still more 
courteous, or (at least) of equal courtesy. Allah takes careful account of all things. -87- Allah 
there is no god but He: of a surety he will gather you together against the day of judgment, 
about which there is no doubt. And whose word can be truer than Allah's? -88- Why should ye 
be divided into two parties about the Hypocrites? Allah hath upset them for their (evil) deeds. 
Would ye guide those whom Allah hath thrown out of the way? for those whom Allah hath 
thrown out of the way, never shalt thou find the way. -89- They but wish that ye should reject 
Faith, as they do, and thus be on the same footing (as they): but take not friends from their 
ranks until they flee in the way of Allah (from what is forbidden). But if they turn renegades, 
seize them and slay them wherever ye find them; and (in any case) take no friends or helpers 
from their ranks; -90- Except those who join a group between whom and you there is a treaty (of 
peace), or those who approach you with hearts restraining them from fighting you as well as 
fighting their own people. If Allah had pleased, he could have given them power over you, and 
they would have fought you: therefore if they withdraw from you but fight you not, and (instead) 
send you (guarantees of) peace, them Allah hath opened no way for you (to war against them). 
-91- Others you will find that wish to gain your confidence as well as that of their people: every 
time they are sent back to temptation, they succumb thereto: if they withdraw not from you nor 
give you (guarantees) of peace besides restraining their hands, seize them and slay them 
wherever ye get them: in their case we have provided you with a clear argument against them. 
-92- Never should a Believer kill a Believer; but (if it so happens) by mistake, (compensation is 
due); if one (so) kills a Believer, it is ordained that he should free a believing slave, and pay 