straight: follow it: follow not (other) paths: they will scatter you about from his (great) path: thus 
doth He command you, that ye may be righteous. -154- Moreover, we gave Moses the book, 
completing (our favour) to those who would do right, and explaining all things in detail, and a 
guide and a mercy, that they might believe in the meeting with their Lord. -155- And this is a 
book which we have revealed as a blessing: so follow it and be righteous, that ye may receive 
mercy: -156- Lest ye should say: the book was sent down to two peoples before us, and for our 
part, we remained unacquainted with all that they learned by assiduous study; -157- Or lest ye 
should say: if the book had only been sent down to us, we should have followed its guidance 
better than they. Now then hath come unto you a clear (sign) from your Lord, and a guide and a 
mercy: then who could do more wrong than one who rejecteth Allah's Signs, and turneth away 
therefrom? in good time shall we requite those who turn away from our Signs, with a dreadful 
penalty, for their turning away. -158- Are they waiting to see if the angels come to them, or thy 
Lord (Himself), or certain of the Signs of thy Lord the day that certain of the Signs of thy Lord do 
come, no good will it do to a soul to believe in them then, if it believed not before nor earned 
righteousness through its Faith. Say: wait ye: we too are waiting. -159- As for those who divide 
their religion and break up into sects, thou hast no part in them in the least: their affair is with 
Allah: He will in the end tell them the truth of all that they did. -160- He that doeth good shall 
have ten times as much to his credit: he that doeth evil shall only be recompensed according to 
his evil: no wrong shall be done unto (any of) them. -161- Say: verily, my Lord hath guided me 
to a way that is straight, a religion of right, the path (trod) by Abraham the true in Faith, and he 
(certainly) joined not gods with Allah. -162- Say: truly, my prayer and my service of sacrifice, my 
life and my death, are (all) for Allah, the Cherisher of the worlds: -163- No partner hath He: this 
am I commanded, and I am the first of those who bow to his will. -164- Say: shall I seek for (my) 
Cherisher other than Allah, when He is the Cherisher of all things (that exist)? every soul draws 
the meed of its acts on none but itself: no bearer of burdens can bear the burden of another. 
Your goal in the end is towards Allah: He will tell you the truth of the things wherein ye disputed. 
-165- It is He Who hath made you (his) agents, inheritors of the earth: He hath raised you in 
ranks, some above others: that He may try you in the gifts He hath given you: for thy Lord is 
quick in punishment: yet He is indeed Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.  
SURAH 7: AL ACRAF (The Heights). -1- 
​
Alif Lam Mim Sad.  
51  
-2- A Book revealed unto three, so let thy heart be oppressed no more by any difficulty on that 
account, that with it thou mightest warn (the erring) and teach the Believers. -3- Follow (O men) 
the revelation Given unto you form your Lord, and follow not, as friends Or protectors, other 