said: O Jesus I will take thee and raise thee to myself and clear thee (of the falsehoods) of 
those who blaspheme; I will make those who follow thee superior to those who reject Faith, to 
the day of resurrection: then shall ye all return unto me, and I will judge between you of the 
matters wherein ye dispute. -56- As to those who reject Faith, I will punish them with terrible 
agony in this world and in the Hereafter, nor will they have anyone to help. -57- As to those who 
believe and work righteousness, Allah will pay them (in full) their reward; but Allah loveth not 
those who do wrong. -58- This is what we rehearse unto thee of the Signs and the message of 
wisdom. -59- The similitude of Jesus before Allah is as that of Adam; he created him from dust, 
then said to him: Be: and he was. -60- The truth (comes) from Allah alone; so be not of those 
who doubt.  
19  
-61- If any one disputes in this matter with thee, now after (full) knowledge hath come to thee, 
say: come let us gather together, our sons and your sons, our women and your women, 
ourselves and yourselves: then let us earnestly pray, and invoke the curse of Allah on those 
who lie! -62- This is the true account: there is no god except Allah he is indeed the exalted in 
power, the wise. -63- But if they turn back, Allah hath full knowledge of those who do mischief. 
-64- Say: O People of the Book come to common terms as between us and you: that we 
worship none but Allah; that we associate no partners with him; that we erect not, from among 
ourselves, lords and patrons other than Allah. If then they turn back, say ye: bear witness that 
we (at last) are Muslims (bowing to Allah's will) -65- Ye People of the Book why dispute ye 
about Abraham, when the law and the Gospel were not revealed till after him? have you 
understanding? -66- Ah ye are those who fell to disputing (even) in matters of which ye had 
some knowledge but why dispute ye in matters of which ye have no knowledge? it is Allah who 
knows, and ye who know not -67- Abraham was not a Jew nor yet a Christian; but he was true 
in Faith, and bowed his will to Allah's, (which is Islam), and he joined not gods with Allah. -68- 
Without doubt, among men, the nearest of kin to Abraham, are those who follow him, as are 
also this Prophet and those who believe: and Allah is the Protector of those who have Faith. 
-69- It is the wish of a section of the People of the Book to lead you astray but they shall lead 
astray (not you), but themselves, and they do not perceive -70- Ye People of the Book why 
reject ye the Signs of Allah, of which ye are (yourselves) witnesses? -71- Ye People of the Book 
why do ye clothe truth with falsehood, and conceal the truth, while ye have knowledge? -72- A 
section of the People of the Book say: believe in the morning what is revealed to the Believers, 
but reject it at the end of the day; perchance they may (themselves) turn back; -73- And believe 
no one unless he follows your religion. Say: turn guidance is the guidance of Allah: (fear ye) lest 
a revelation be sent to someone (else) like unto that which was sent unto you? or that those 
(receiving such revelation) should engage you in argument before your Lord? say: all bounties 
are in the hand of Allah: he granteth them to whom he pleaseth: and Allah careth for all, and he 