sins for those who receive admonition. -127- For them will be a home of peace in the presence 
of their Lord: he will be their friend, because they practised (righteousness). -128- One day will 
he gather them all together, (and say): O ye assembly of Jinns much (toll) did ye take of men. 
Their friends amongst men will say: our Lord we made profit from each other: but (alas) we 
reached our term which thou didst appoint for us. He will say: the fire be your dwelling place: 
you will dwell therein forever, except as Allah willeth. For thy Lord is full of wisdom and 
knowledge. -129- Thus do We make the wrongdoers turn to each other, because of what they 
earn. -130- O ye assembly of Jinns and men! came there not unto you Messengers from 
amongst you, setting forth unto you my Signs, and warning you of the meeting of this Day of 
yours? they will say: we bear witness against ourselves. It was the life of this world that 
deceived them. So against themselves will they bear witness that they rejected Faith. -131- (The 
Messengers were sent) thus, for thy Lord would not destroy, for their wrongdoing men's 
habitations whilst their occupants were unwarned. -132- To all are degrees (or ranks) according 
to their deeds: for thy Lord is not unmindful of anything that they do. -133- Thy Lord is 
Self-Sufficient, full of mercy: if it were his will, he could destroy you, and in your place appoint 
whom he will as your successors, even as he raised you up from the posterity of other people.  
49  
-134- All that hath been promised unto you will come to pass: nor can ye frustrate it (in the least 
bit). -135- Say: O my people do whatever ye can: I will do (my part): soon will ye know who it is 
whose end will be (best) in the Hereafter: certain it is that the wrongdoers will not prosper. -136- 
Out of what Allah hath produced in abundance in tilth and in cattle, they assigned him a share: 
they say, according to their fancies: this is for Allah, and this for our partners but the share of 
their partners reacheth not Allah, whilst the share of Allah reacheth their partners evil (and 
unjust) is their assignment -137- Even so, in the eyes of most of the pagans, their partners 
made alluring the slaughter of their children, in order to lead them to their own destruction, and 
cause confusion in their religion. If Allah had willed, they would not have done so: but leave 
alone them and their inventions. -138- And they say that such and such cattle and crops are 
taboo, and none should eat of them except those whom so they say we wish; further, there are 
cattle forbidden to yoke or burden, and cattle on which, (at slaughter), the name of Allah is not 
pronounced; inventions against Allah's name: soon will he requite them for their inventions. 
-139- They say: what is in the wombs of such and such cattle is specially reserved (for food) for 
our men, and forbidden to our women; but if it is still born, then all have shares therein. For their 
(false) attribution (of superstitions to Allah), He will soon punish them: for He is full of wisdom 
and knowledge. -140- Lost are those who slay their children, from folly, without knowledge, and 
forbid food which Allah hath provided for them, inventing (lies) against Allah. They have indeed 
gone astray and heeded no guidance. -141- It is He Who produceth gardens, with trellises and 
without, and dated, and tilth with produce of all kinds, and olives and pomegranates, similar (in 
kind) and different (in variety): eat of their fruit in their season, but render the dues that are 