than Him. Little it is ye remember of admonition. -4- Low many towns have we destroyed (for 
their sins)? our punishment took them on a sudden by night or while they slept for their 
afternoon rest. -5- When (thus) Our punishment Took them, no cry did they utter but this: Indeed 
we did wrong. -6- Then shall we question those to whom Our message was sent and those by 
whom We sent it. -7- And verily we shall recount their whole story with knowledge, for we Were 
never absent (At any time or place). -8- The balance that day will be true (to a nicety): those 
whose scale (of good) Will be heavy, will prosper: -9- Those whose scale will be light, will be 
light, will find their souls In perdition for that they wrongfully treated Our sings. -10- It is we who 
have placed you with authority on earth, and provided You therein with means for the fulfillment 
of your life: small are the thanks that ye give -11- It is we who created you and gave you chap; 
than we bade the angels bow down to Adam, and they bowed down; not so Iblis; he refused to 
be of those who bow down. -12- (Allah) said: What prevented Thee from bowing down when I 
commanded thee? He said: I am better than he: Thou didst create Me from fire, and him from 
clay. -13- (Allah) said: Get thee down From this: it is not For thee to be arrogant Here: get out, 
for thou Art of the meanest (of creatures). -14- He said: Give me respite Till the day they are 
Raced up. -15- (Allah) said: Be thou Among those who have respite. -16- He said: Because 
thou Hast thrown me out of the Way I o I will Lie in wait for them On Thy Straight Way: -17- 
Then will I assault them From before them and behind them, From Their right and their left: Nor 
wilt Thou find, In most of them, Gratitude (for Thy mercies). -18- (Allah) said: "Get out from this, 
disgraced and expelled. If any of them follow thee, Hell will I fill with you all. -19- O Adam! dwell 
thou And thy wife in the Garden, and enjoy (its good things) as ye wish: but approach not this 
tree or ye run into harm and transgression. -20- Then began Satan to whisper suggestions to 
them, in order to reveal to them their shame that was hidden from them (before): he said: "Your 
Lord only forbade you this tree, Lest ye should become angels or such beings as live forever." 
-21- And he swore to them both that he was their sincere adviser. -22- So by deceit he brought 
about their fall: when they tasted of the tree, their shame became manifest to them, and they 
began to sew together the leaves of the Garden over their bodies. And their Lord called unto 
them: "Did I not forbid you that tree, and tell you that Satan was an avowed enemy unto you?" 
-23- They said: "Our Lord! We have wronged our own souls: if Thou forgive us not and bestow 
not upon us Thy Mercy, we shall Certainly be lost." -24- (Allah) said: "Get ye down, with enmity 
between yourself. On earth will be your dwelling-place and your means of livelihood- for a time." 
-25- He said: "Therein shall ye live, and therein shall ye die; but from it shall ye be taken out (at 
last)." -26- O ye Children of Adam! we shall have bestowed raiment upon you to cover your 
shame, as well as to be an adornment to you. But the raiment of righteousness- that is the best. 
Such are among the Signs of Allah, that they may receive admonition! -27- O ye Children of 
Adam! let not Satan seduce you, in the same manner as he got your parents out of the Garden, 
stripping them of their raiment, to expose their shame: for he and his tribe watch you from a 
position where ye cannot see them: We made the Evil Ones friends (only) to those without 
Faith.  