proper on the day that the harvest is gathered. But waste not by excess: for Allah loveth not the 
wasters. -142- Of the cattle are some for burden and some for meat: eat what Allah hath 
provided for you, and follow not the footsteps of Satan: for he is to you an avowed enemy. -143- 
(take) eight (head of cattle) in (four) pairs: of sheep a pair, and of goats a pair; say, hath He 
forbidden the two males, or the two females, or (the young) which the wombs of the two females 
enclose? tell me with knowledge if ye are truthful: -144- Of camels a pair, and of oxen a pair; 
say, hath He forbidden the two males, or the two females, or (the young) which the wombs of 
the two females enclose? were ye present when Allah ordered you such a thing? but who doth 
more wrong than one who invents a lie against Allah, to lead astray men without knowledge? for 
Allah guideth not people who do wrong. -145- Say: I find not in the message received by me by 
inspiration any (meat) forbidden to be eaten by one who wishes to eat it, unless it be dead meat, 
or blood poured forth, or the flesh of swine, for it is an abomination or, what is impious, (meat) 
on which a name has been invoked, other than Allah's. But (even so), if a person is forced by 
necessity, without wilful disobedience, nor transgressing due limits, thy Lord is Oft-Forgiving, 
Most Merciful. -146- For those who followed the Jewish law, we forbade every (animal) with 
undivided hoof, and we forbade them the fat of the ox and the sheep, except what adheres to 
their backs or their entrails, or is mixed up with a bone: this in recompense for their wilful 
disobedience: for we are true (in our ordinances). -147- If they accuse thee of falsehood, say: 
your Lord is full of mercy all embracing; but from people in guilt never will his wrath be turned 
back. -148- Those who give partners (to Allah) will say: if Allah had wished, we should not have 
given partners to him, nor would our fathers; nor should we have had any taboos. So did their 
ancestors argue falsely, until they tasted of our wrath. Say: have ye any (certain) knowledge? if 
so, produce it before us. Ye follow nothing but conjecture: ye do nothing but lie. -149- With Allah 
is the argument that reaches home: if it had been his will, He could indeed have guided you all.  
50  
-150- Say: bring forward your witnesses to prove that Allah did forbid so and so. If they bring 
such witnesses, be not thou amongst them: nor follow thou the vain desires of such as treat our 
Signs as falsehoods, and such as believe not in the Hereafter: for they hold others as equal with 
their guardian Lord. -151- Say: come, I will rehearse what Allah hath (really) prohibited you 
from: join not anything as equal with him; be good to your parents; kill not your children on a 
plea of want; we provide sustenance for you and for them; come not nigh to shameful deeds, 
whether open or secret; take not life, which Allah hath made sacred, except by way of justice 
and law: thus doth He command you, that ye may learn wisdom. -152- And come not nigh to the 
orphan's property, except to improve it, until he attain the age of full strength; give measure and 
weight with (full) justice; no burden do we place on any soul, but that which it can bear; 
whenever ye speak, speak justly, even if a near relative is concerned; and fulfil the Covenant of 
Allah: thus doth He command you, that ye may remember. -153- Verily, this is my way, leading 