71  
-126- See they not that they are tried every year once or twice? yet they turn not in repentance, 
and they take no heed. -127- Whenever there cometh down a Surah, they look at each other, 
(saying), doth anyone see you? then they turn aside: Allah hath turned their hearts (from the 
light); for they are people that understand not. -128- Now hath come unto you a Messenger from 
amongst yourselves: it grieves him that ye should perish: ardently anxious is he over you: to the 
Believers is he most kind and merciful. -129- But if they turn away, say: "Allah sufficeth me: 
there is no god but He: on Him is my trust- He the Lord of the Throne (of Glory) Supreme!"  
SURAH 10: YUNUS (Jonah). -1- A. L. R. These are the Ayats of the book of wisdom. -2- Is it 
​
a matter of wonderment to men that we have sent our inspiration to a man from among 
themselves? that he should warn mankind (of their danger), and give the good news to the 
Believers that they have before their Lord the lofty rank of truth. (but) say the Unbelievers: this is 
indeed an evident sorcerer -3- Verily your Lord is Allah, who created the heavens and the earth 
in six days, and is firmly established on the throne (of authority), regulating and governing all 
things. No intercessor (can plead with him) except after his leave (hath been obtained). This is 
Allah your Lord; him therefore serve ye: will ye not receive a admonition? -4- To him will de your 
return of all of you. The promise of Allah is true and sour. It is He Who beginneth the process of 
creation, and repeateth it, that he may reward with justice those believe and work 
righteousness; but those who reject him will have draughts of boiling fluids, and a penalty 
grievous, Because they did reject him. -5- It is He Who made the sun to be a shining glory and 
the moon to be a light (of beauty), and measured out stages for her; that ye might know the 
number of years and the count (of time). Nowise did Allah create this but in truth and 
righteousness. (thus) both he explain his Signs in detail, for those who understand -6- Verily in 
the alternation of the night and the day, and in all that Allah hath created, in the heavens and 
the earth are Signs for those who fear him. -7- Those who rest not their hope on their meeting 
with us, but are pleased and satisfied with the life of the present, and those who heed not our 
Signs, -8- Their abode is the fire, because of the (evil) they earned. -9- Those who believe, and 
work righteousness- their Lord will guide them because of their Faith: beneath them will flow 
rivers in Gardens of Bliss. -10- (This will be) their cry therein: "Glory to thee, O Allah!" And 
"Peace" will be their greeting therein! And the close of their cry will be: "Praise be to Allah, the 
Cherisher and Sustainer of the Worlds!" -11- If Allah were to hasten for men the ill (they have 
earned) as they would fain hasten on the good- then would their respite be settled at once. But 
We leave those who rest not their hope on their meeting with Us, in their trespasses, wandering 
in distraction to and fro. -12- When trouble toucheth a man, he crieth unto us (in all postures) 
lying down on his side, or sitting, or standing. But when we have solved his trouble, he passeth 
on his way as if he had never cried to us for a trouble that touched him thus do the deeds of 