have a burden laid on it greater than it can bear. No mother shall be treated unfairly on account 
of her child, an heir shall be chargeable in the same way. If they both decide on weaning, by 
mutual consent, and after due consultation, there is no blame on them. If ye decide on a foster 
mother for your offspring, there is no blame on you, provided ye pay (the mother) what ye 
offered, on equitable terms. But fear Allah and know that Allah sees well what ye do. -234- If 
any of you die and leave widows behind, they shall wait concerning themselves four months and 
ten days: when they have fulfilled their terms, there is no blame on you if they dispose of 
themselves in a just and reasonable manner. And Allah is well acquainted with what ye do. 
-235- There is no blame on you if ye make an offer of betrothal or hold it in your hearts. Allah 
knows that ye cherish them in your hearts: but do not make a secret contract with them except 
that you speak to them in terms honourable, nor resolve on the tie of marriage till the term 
prescribed is fulfilled. And know that Allah knoweth what is in your hearts, and take heed of Him: 
and know that Allah is Oft- Forgiving, Most Forbearing. -236- There is no blame on you if ye 
divorce women before consummation or the fixation of their dower; but bestow on them (a 
suitable gift), the wealthy according to his means, and the poor according to his means; a gift of 
a reasonable amount is due from those who wish to do the right things. -237- And if ye divorce 
them before consummation but after the fixation of a dower for them, then the of the dower (is 
due to them), unless they remit it or (the man's half) is remitted by him in whose hands is the 
marriage tie; and the remission (of the man's half) is the nearest to righteousness. And do not 
forget liberality between yourselves. All that ye do. -238- Guard strictly your (habit of) Prayers, 
especially the middle prayer; and stand before Allah in a devout (frame of mind). -239- If ye fear 
(an enemy), pray on foot, or riding, (as may be most convenient), but when ye are in security, 
celebrate Allah's praises in the manner he has taught you, which ye knew not (before). -240- 
Those of you who die and leave widows should bequeath for their widows a year's maintenance 
and residence; but if they leave (the residence), there is no blame on you for what they do with 
themselves, provided it is reasonable. And Allah is exalted in power, wise. -241- For divorced 
women maintenance (should be provided) on a reasonable (scale). This is a duty on the 
righteous. -242- Thus doth Allah make clear his Signs to you: in order that ye may understand. 
-243- Didst thou not turn by vision to those who abandoned their homes, though they were 
thousands (in number), for fear of death? Allah said to them: die: then he restored them to life. 
For Allah is full of Bounty to mankind, but most of them are ungrateful. -244- Then fight in the 
cause of Allah, and know that Allah heareth and knoweth all things.  
13  
-245- Who is he that will loan to Allah a beautiful loan, which Allah will double unto his credit and 
multiply many times? it is Allah that giveth (you) want or plenty, and to him shall be your return. 
-246- Last thou not turned thy vision to the chiefs of the Children of Israel after (the time of) 
Moses? they said to a prophet (that was) among them: appoint for us a king, that we may fight 
in the cause of Allah. He said: is it not possible, if ye were commanded to fight, that ye will not 