but He, the living, the self subsisting, eternal. -3- It is He Who sent down to thee (step by step), 
in truth, the book, confirming what went before it; and he sent down the law (of Moses) and the 
gospel (of Jesus) before this, as a guide to mankind, and he sent down the criterion (of 
judgment between right and wrong). -4- Then those who reject Faith in the Signs of Allah will 
suffer the severest penalty, and Allah is exalted in might, Lord of retribution. -5- From Allah, 
verily nothing is hidden on earth or in the heavens. -6- He it is who shapes you in the wombs as 
he pleases. There is no god but He, the exalted in might, the wise. -7- He it is who has sent 
down to thee the book: in it are verses basic or fundamental (of established meaning); they are 
the foundation of the book: others are allegorical. But those in whose hearts is perversity follow 
the part thereof that is allegorical, seeking discord, and searching for its hidden meanings, but 
no one knows its hidden meanings except go. And those who are firmly grounded in knowledge 
say: we believe in the book; the whole of it is from our Lord: and none will grasp the message 
except men of understanding. -8- Our Lord (they say), let not our hearts deviate now after thou 
hast guided us, but grant us mercy from thine own presence; for thou art the grantor of bounties 
without measure. -9- Our Lord thou art he that will gather mankind together against a day about 
which there is no doubt; for Allah never fails in his promise. -10- Those who reject Faith, neither 
their possessions nor their (numerous) progeny will avail them aught against Allah: they are 
themselves but fuel for the fire. -11- (their plight will be) no better than that of the people of 
pharaoh, and their predecessors: they denied our Signs, and Allah called them to account for 
their sins. For Allah is strict in punishment. -12- Say to those who reject Faith: soon will ye be 
vanquished and gathered together to Hell, an evil bed indeed (to lie on) -13- There has already 
been for you a sign in the two armies that met (in combat): one was fighting in the cause of 
Allah, the other resisting Allah; these saw with their own eyes twice their number. But Allah doth 
support with his aid whom he pleaseth in this is a warning for such as have eyes to see. -14- 
Fair in the eyes of men is the love of things they covet: women and sons; heaped up hoards of 
gold and silver; horses branded (for blood and excellence); and (wealth of) cattle and well tilled 
land. Such are the possessions of this world's life; but in nearness to Allah is the best of the 
goals (to return to). -15- Say: Shall I give you glad tidings of things far better than those? For the 
righteous are Gardens in nearness to their Lord, with rivers flowing beneath; therein is their 
eternal home; with Companions pure (and holy); and the good pleasure of Allah. For in Allah's 
sight are (all) His servants- -16- (Namely), those who say: "Our Lord! we have indeed believed: 
forgive us, then, our sins, and save us from the agony of the Fire"- -17- Those who show 
patience, firmness and self-control; who are true (in word and deed); who worship devoutly; who 
spend (in the way of Allah); and who pray for forgiveness in the early hours of the morning. -18- 
There is no god but He: that is the witness of Allah, his angels, and those endued with 
knowledge, standing firm on justice. There is no god but He, the exalted in power, the wise.  
17  
-19- The religion before Allah is Islam (submission to his will): nor did the People of the Book 