stratagem (of war); but if they repent, and establish regular Prayers and practise regular Charity, 
then open the way for them: for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -6- If one amongst the 
Pagans ask thee for asylum, grant it to him, so that he may hear the word of Allah; and then 
escort him to where he can be secure. That is because they are men without knowledge. -7- 
How can there be a league, before Allah and His Messenger, with the Pagans, except those 
with whom ye made a treaty near the sacred mosque? As long as these stand true to you, stand 
ye true to them: for Allah doth love the righteous. -8- How (can there be such a league), seeing 
that if they get an advantage over you, they respect not in you the ties either of kinship or of 
Covenant? with (fair words from) their mouths they entice you, but their hearts are averse from 
you; and most of them are rebellious and wicked. -9- The Signs of Allah have they sold for a 
miserable price, and (many) have they hindered from his way: evil indeed are the deeds they 
have done. -10- In a Believer they respect not the ties either of kinship or of Covenant it is they 
who have transgressed all bounds. -11- But (even so), if they repent, establish regular Prayers, 
and practise regular Charity, they are your brethren in Faith: (thus) do we explain the Signs in 
detail, for those who understand. -12- But if they violate their oaths after their Covenant, and 
taunt you for your Faith, fight ye the chiefs of unfaith: for their oaths are nothing to them: that 
thus they may be restrained. -13- Will ye not fight people who violated their oaths, plotted to 
expel the Messenger, and took the aggressive by being the first (to assault) you? Do ye fear 
them? Nay, it is Allah Whom ye should more justly fear, if ye believe!  
65  
-14- Fight them, and Allah will punish them by your hands, cover them with shame, help you (to 
victory) over them, heal the breasts of Believers, -15- And still the indignation of their hearts for 
Allah will turn (in mercy) to whom he will; and Allah is All-Knowing, All-Wise. -16- Or think ye 
that ye shall be abandoned, as though Allah did not know those among you who strive with 
might and main, and take none for friend and protectors except Allah, His Messenger, and the 
(community of) Believers? But Allah is well-acquainted with (all) that ye do. -17- It is not for such 
as join gods with Allah, to visit or maintain the mosques of Allah while they witness against their 
own souls to infidelity. The works of such bear no fruit: in fire shall they dwell. -18- The mosques 
of Allah shall be visited and maintained by such as believe in Allah and the Last Day, establish 
regular Prayers, and practise regular Charity, and fear none (at all) except Allah. It is they who 
are expected to be on true guidance. -19- Do ye make the giving of drink to pilgrims, or the 
maintenance of the Sacred mosque, equal to (the pious service of) those who believe in Allah 
and the Last Day, and strive with might and main in the cause of Allah? they are not comparable 
in the sight of Allah: and Allah guides not those who do wrong. -20- Those who believe, and 
suffer exile and strive with might and main, in Allah's cause, with their goods and their persons, 
have the highest rank in the sight of Allah: they are the people who will achieve (salvation). -21- 
Their Lord doth give them glad tidings of a Mercy from Himself, of His good pleasure, and of 