-92- The men who rejected Shu'aib became as if they had never been in the homes where they 
had flourished: the men who rejected Shu'aib it was they who were ruined -93- So Shu'aib left 
them, saying: O my people I did indeed convey to you the messages for which I was sent by my 
Lord: I gave you good counsel, but how shall I lament over a people who refuse to believe -94- 
Whenever we sent a prophet to a town, we took up its people in suffering and adversity, in order 
that they might learn humility. -95- Then we changed their suffering into prosperity, until they 
grew and multiplied, and began to say: Our fathers (too) were touched by suffering and 
affluence Behold we called them to account of a sudden, while they realized not (their peril). 
-96- If the people of the towns had but believe and feared Allah, we should indeed have opened 
out to them (all kinds of) blessing from heaven and earth; but they rejected (the truth), and we 
brought them to book for their misdeeds. -97- Did the people of the town feel secure against the 
coming of our wrath by night while they were asleep? -98- Or else did they feel secure against 
its coming in broad daylight while they played about (care free)? -99- Did they then feel secure 
against the plan of Allah? but no one can feel secure from the plan of Allah, except those 
(Doomed) to ruin -100- To those who inherit the earth in succession to its (previous) 
possessors, is it not a guiding (lesson) that, if we so willed, we could punish them (too) for their 
sins, and seal up their hearts so that they could not hear? -101- Such were the towns whose 
story We (thus) relate unto thee: there came indeed to them their Messengers with clear 
(Signs): but they would not believe what they had rejected before. Thus doth Allah seal up the 
hearts of those who reject Faith. -102- Most of them we found not men (true) to their Covenant: 
but most of them we found rebellious and disobedient. -103- Then after them we sent Moses 
with our Signs to Pharaoh and his chiefs, but they wrongfully rejected them so see what was the 
end of those who made mischief. -104- Moses said: "O Pharaoh! I am a Messenger from the 
Lord of the Worlds- -105- "One for whom it is right to say nothing but truth about Allah. Now 
have I come unto you (people), from your Lord with a clear (Sign): so let the Children of Israel 
depart along with me." -106- (Pharaoh) said: "If indeed thou hast come with a Sign, show it 
forth- if thou tellest the truth." -107- Then (Moses) threw his rod, and behold it was a serpent, 
plain (for all to see)! -108- And he drew out his hand, and behold! It was white to all beholders! 
-109- Said the chiefs of the people of Pharaoh: "This is indeed a sorcerer well-versed. -110- 
"His plan is to get you out of your land: then what is it ye counsel?"  
56  
-111- They said: "Keep him and his brother in suspense (for awhile); and send to the cities men 
to collect- -112- "And bring up to thee all (our) sorcerers well-versed." -113- So there came the 
sorcerers to Pharaoh: they said, of course we shall have a (suitable) reward if we win -114- He 
said: Yea, (and more), for ye shall in that case be (raised to posts) nearest (to my person). -115- 
They said: O Moses wilt thou throw (first), or shall we have the (first) throw? -116- Said Moses: 
throw ye (first). So when they threw, they bewitched the eyes of the people and struck terror into 