knoweth all things. -74- For his mercy he specially chooseth whom he pleaseth; for Allah is the 
Lord of bounties unbounded. -75- Among the People of the Book are some who, if entrusted 
with a hoard of gold, will (readily) pay it back; others, who, if entrusted with a single silver coin, 
will not repay it unless thou constantly stoodest demanding, because, they say, there is no call 
on us (to keep Faith) with these ignorant (pagans). But they tell a lie against Allah, and (well) 
they know it. -76- Nay. Those that keep their plighted Faith and act aright, verily Allah loves 
those who act aright. -77- As for those who sell the Faith they own to Allah and their own 
plighted word for a small price, they shall have no portion in the Hereafter: nor will Allah (deign 
to) speak to them or look at them on the day of judgment, nor will he cleanse them (of sin): they 
shall have a grievous penalty. -78- There is among them a section who distort the book with 
their tongues: (as they read) you would think it is a part of the book, but it is no part of the book; 
and they say, that is from Allah, but it is not from Allah: it is they who tell a lie against Allah, and 
(well) they know it -79- It is not (possible) that a man, to whom is given the book, and wisdom, 
and the prophetic office, should say to people: be ye my worshippers rather than Allah's: on the 
contrary (he would say) be ye worshippers of Him Who is truly the Cherisher of all: for ye have 
taught the book and ye have studied it earnestly. -80- Nor would he instruct you to take angels 
and prophets for lords and patrons. What would he bid you to unbelief after ye have bowed after 
ye have bowed your will (to Allah in Islam)? -81- Behold! Allah took the covenant of the 
Prophets, saying: "I give you a Book and Wisdom; then comes to you a Messenger, confirming 
what is with you; do ye believe in him and render him help." Allah said: "Do ye agree, and take 
this my Covenant as binding on you?" They said: "We agree." He said: "Then bear witness, and 
I am with you among the witnesses."  
20  
-82- If any turn back after this, they are perverted transgressors. -83- Do they seek for other 
than the religion of Allah? while all creatures in the heavens and on earth have, willing or 
unwilling, bowed to his will (accepted Islam), and to him shall they all be brought back. -84- Say: 
we believe in Allah, and in what has been revealed to us and what was revealed to Abraham. 
IsmaTil; Isaac, Jacob, and the tribes, and in (the books) given to Moses, Jesus, and the 
prophets, from their Lord: we make no distinction between on and another among them, and to 
Allah do we bow our will (in Islam). -85- If anyone desires a religion other than Islam 
(submission to Allah), never will it be accepted of him; and in the Hereafter he will be in the 
ranks of those who have lost (all spiritual good). -86- How shall Allah guide those who reject 
Faith after they accepted it and bore witness that the Messenger was true and that Clear Signs 
had come unto them? But Allah guides not a people unjust. -87- Of such the reward is that on 
them (rests) the curse of Allah, of his angels, and of all mankind; -88- In that will they dwell; nor 
will their penalty be lightened, nor respite be their (lot); -89- Except for those that repent (even) 
after that, and make amends; for verily Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -90- But those who 
reject Faith after they accepted it, and then go on adding to their defiance of Faith, never will 