in haste against their growing up if the guardian is well off, let him claim no remuneration, but if 
he poor, let him have for himself what is just and reasonable. When ye release their property to 
them, take witnesses in their presence: but all sufficient is Allah in taking account. -7- From what 
is left by parents and those nearest related there is a share for men and a share for women, 
whether the property be small or large, a determinate share. -8- But if at the time of division 
other relatives, or orphans, or poor, are present, feed them out of the (property), and speak to 
them words of kindness and justice. -9- Let those (disposing of an estate) have the same fear in 
their minds as they would have for their own if they had left a helpless family behind: let them 
fear Allah, and speak words of appropriate (comfort). -10- Those who unjustly eat up the 
property of orphans, eat up a fire into their own bodies: they will soon be enduring a blazing fire 
-11- Allah (thus) directs you as regards your children's (inheritance): to the male, a portion equal 
to that of two females: if only daughters, two or more, their share is two thirds of the inheritance; 
of only one, her share is a half. For parents, a sixth share of the inheritance to each, if no 
children, and the parents are the (only) heirs, the mother has a third; if the deceased left 
brothers (or sisters) the mother has a sixth. (the distribution in all cases is) after the payment of 
legacies and debts. Ye know not whether your parents or your children are nearest to you in 
benefit. These are settled portions ordained by Allah; and Allah is All-Knowing, All-Wise. -12- In 
what your wives leave, your share is a half, if they leave no child; but if they leave a child, ye get 
a fourth; after payment of legacies and debts. In what ye leave, their share is a fourth, if ye 
leave no child; but if ye leave a child, they get an eighth; after payment of legacies and debts. If 
the man or woman whose inheritance is in question, has left neither ascendants nor 
descendants, but has left a brother or a sister, each one of the two gets a sixth; but if more than 
two, they in a third; after payment of legacies and debts; so that no loss is caused (to any one). 
Thus is it ordained by Allah; and Allah is All-Knowing, most forbearing. -13- Those are limits set 
by Allah; those who obey Allah and His Messenger will be admitted to Gardens with rivers 
flowing beneath, to abide therein (forever) and that will be the supreme achievement. -14- But 
those who disobey Allah and His Messenger and transgress His limits will be admitted to a Fire, 
to abide therein: and they shall have a humiliating punishment. -15- If any of your women are 
guilty of lewdness, take the evidence of four (reliable) witnesses from amongst you against 
them; and if they testify, confine them to houses until death do claim them, or Allah ordain for 
them some (other) way. -16- If two men among you are guilty of lewdness, punish them both. If 
they repent and amend, leave them alone; for Allah is Oft-Returning, Most Merciful. -17- Allah 
accepts the repentance of those who do evil in ignorance and repent soon afterwards; to them 
will Allah turn in mercy: for Allah is full of knowledge and wisdom. -18- Of effect is the 
repentance of those who continue to do evil, until death faces one of them, and he says, now 
have I repented indeed; nor of those who die rejecting Faith: for them have we prepared a 
punishment most grievous. -19- O ye who believe ye are forbidden to inherit women against 
their will. Nor should ye treat them with harshness, that ye may take away part of the dower ye 
have given them, except where they have been guilty of open lewdness; on the contrary live 