the case of those before you: they were mightier than you in power, and more flourishing in 
wealth and children. They had their enjoyment of their portion: and ye have of yours, and ye 
indulge in idle talk as they did. They their works are fruitless in this world and in the Hereafter, 
and they will lose (all spiritual good). -70- Hath not the story reached them of those before 
them?- The people of Noah, and TAd, and Thamud; the people of Abraham, the men of Midian, 
and the Cities overthrown. To them came their messengers with Clear Signs. It is not Allah Who 
wrongs them, but they wrong their own souls.  
68  
-71- The Believers, men and women, are protectors, one of another: they enjoin what is just, 
and forbid what is evil: they observe regular prayers, practice regular charity, and obey Allah 
and His Messenger. On them will Allah pour His Mercy: for Allah is Exalted in power, Wise. -72- 
Allah hath promised to Believers- men and women, Gardens under which rivers flow, to dwell 
therein, and beautiful mansions in Gardens of everlasting bliss. But the greatest bliss is the 
Good Pleasure of Allah: that is the supreme felicity. -73- O Prophet! strive hard against the 
Unbelievers and the Hypocrites, and be firm against them. Their abode is Hell- an evil refuge 
indeed. -74- They swear by Allah that they said nothing (evil), but indeed they uttered 
blasphemy, and they did it after accepting Islam; and they meditated a plot which they were 
unable to carry out: this revenge of theirs was (their) only return for the Bounty with which Allah 
and His Messenger had enriched them! If they repent, it will be best for them; but if they turn 
back (to their evil ways), Allah will punish them with a grievous penalty in this life and in the 
Hereafter: they shall have none on earth to protect or help them. -75- Amongst them are men 
who made a Covenant with Allah, that if He bestowed on them of His bounty, they would give 
(largely) in charity, and be truly amongst those who are righteous. -76- But when he did bestow 
of his Bounty, they became covetous, and turned back (from their Covenant), averse (from its 
fulfillment). -77- So he hath put as a consequence hypocrisy into their hearts, (to last) till the day 
whereon they shall meet him: because they broke their Covenant with Allah, and because they 
lied (again and again). -78- Know they not that Allah doth know their secret (thoughts) and their 
secret counsels, and that Allah knoweth well all things unseen? -79- Those who slander such of 
the Believers as give themselves freely to (deeds of) Charity, as well as such as can find 
nothing to give except the fruits of their labour, and throw ridicule on them, Allah will throw back 
their ridicule on them: and they shall have a grievous penalty. -80- Whether thou ask for their 
forgiveness, or not, (their sin is unforgivable): if thou ask seventy times for their forgiveness, 
Allah will not forgive them: because they have rejected Allah and His Messenger; and Allah 
guideth not those who are perversely rebellious. -81- Those who were left behind (in the Tabuk 
expedition) rejoiced in their inaction behind the back of the Messenger of Allah: they hated to 
strive and fight, with their goods and their persons, in the Cause of Allah: they said, "Go not 