47  
thought to be partners in your affairs: so now all relations between you have been cut off, and 
your (pet) fancies have left you in the lurch! -95- It is Allah who causeth the seed grain and the 
date stone to split and sprout. He causeth the living to issue from the dead, and he is the one to 
cause the dead to issue from the living. That is Allah: them how are ye deluded away from the 
truth? -96- He it is that cleaveth the day break (from the dark): he makes the night for rest and 
tranquility, and the sun and moon for the reckoning (of time): such is the judgment and ordering 
of (him), the exalted in power, the omniscient. -97- it is who maketh the stars (as beacons) for 
you, that ye may guide yourselves, with their help, through the dark spaces of land and sea: we 
detail our Signs for people who know. -98- it is who hath produced you from a single person: 
here is a place of sojourn and a place of departure: we detail our Signs for people who 
understand. -99- it is He Who sendeth down rain from the skies: with it We produce vegetation 
of all kinds: from some We produce green (crops), out of which We produce grain, heaped up 
(at harvest); out of the date palm and its sheaths (or spathes) (come) clusters of dates hanging 
low and near: and (then there are) gardens of grapes, and olives, and pomegranates, each 
similar (in kind) yet different (in variety): when they begin to bear fruit, feast your eyes with the 
fruit and the ripeness thereof. Behold in these things there are Signs for people who believe. 
-100- Yet they make the Jinns equals with Allah, though Allah did create the Jinns; and they 
falsely, having no knowledge, attribute to him sons and daughters. Praise and glory be to him 
(for he is) above what they attribute to Him! -101- To him is due the primal origin of the heavens 
and the earth: how can he have a son when he hath no consort? he created all things, and he 
hath full knowledge of all things. -102- That is Allah, your Lord! There is no god but He, the 
Creator of all things: then worship ye Him: and He hath power to dispose of all affaires. -103- No 
vision can grasp him, but his grasp is over all vision: he is above all comprehension, yet is 
acquainted with all things. -104- Now have come to you, from your Lord, proofs (to open your 
eyes): if any will see, it will be for (the good of) his own soul; if any will be blind, it will be to his 
own (harm): I am not (here) to watch over your doings. -105- Thus do we explain the Signs by 
various (symbols): that they may say, thou hast taught (us) diligently, and that we may make the 
matter clear to those who know. -106- Follow what thou art taught by inspiration from thy Lord: 
there is no god but He: and turn aside from those who join gods with Allah. -107- If it had been 
Allah's plan, they would not have taken false gods: but we made thee not one to watch over 
their doings, nor art thou set over them to dispose of their affairs. -108- Revile not ye those 
whom they call upon besides Allah, lest they out of spite revile Allah in their ignorance. Thus 
have we made alluring to each people its own doings. In the end will they return to their Lord, 
and we shall then tell them the truth of all that they did. -109- They swear their strongest oaths 
by Allah, that if a (special) sign came to them, by it they would believe. Say: certainly (all) Signs 
are in the power of go: but what will make you (Muslims) realize that (even) if (special) Signs 