the worlds. -29- For me, I intend to let thee draw on thyself my sin as well as thine, for thou wilt 
be among the companions of the fire, and that is the reward of those who do wrong, -30- The 
(selfish) soul of the other led him to the murder of his brother: he murdered him, and became 
(himself) one of the lost ones. -31- Then Allah sent a raven, who scratched the ground, to show 
him how to hid the shame of his brother. Woe is me said he; was I not even able to be as this 
raven, and to hide the shame of my brother? then he became full of regrets- -32- On that 
account: We ordained for the Children of Israel that if any one slew a person- unless it be for 
murder or for spreading mischief in the land- it would be as if he slew the whole people: and if 
any one saved a life, it would be as if he saved the life of the whole people. Then although there 
came to them Our Messengers with Clear Signs, yet, even after that, many of then continued to 
commit excesses in the land. -33- The punishment of those who wage war against Allah and His 
Messenger, and strive with might and main for mischief through the land is: execution, or 
crucifixion, or the cutting off of hands and feet from opposite sides, or exile from the land: that is 
their disgrace in this world, and a heavy punishment is theirs in the Hereafter; -34- Except for 
those who repent before they fall into your power: in that case, know that Allah is Oft- Forgiving, 
Most Merciful. -35- O ye who believe do your duty to Allah, seek the means of approach unto 
him, and strive with might and main in his cause: that ye may prosper. -36- As to those who 
reject Faith, if they had everything on earth, and twice repeated, to give as ransom for the 
penalty of the day of judgment, it would never be accepted of them. Their would be a grievous 
penalty. -37- Their wish will be to get out of the fire, but never will they get out therefrom: their 
penalty will be one that endure. -38- As to the thief. Male or female, cut off his or her hands: a 
punishment by way of example, from Allah, for their crime: and Allah is exalted in power. -39- 
But if the thief repent after his crime, and amend his conduct, Allah turneth to him in 
forgiveness; for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -40- Knowest thou not that to Allah (alone) 
belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth? he punisheth whom he pleaseth, and he 
forgiveth whom he pleaseth: and Allah hath power over all things. -41- O Messenger! let not 
those grieve thee, who race each other into Unbelief: (whether it be) among those who say "We 
believe" with their lips but whose hearts have no Faith; or it be among the Jews- men who will 
listen to any lie- will listen even to others who have never so much as come to thee. They 
change the words from their (right) times and places: they say, "If ye are given this, take it, but if 
not, beware!" If any one's trial is intended by Allah, thou hast no authority in the least for him 
against  
38  
Allah. For such- it is not Allah's will to purify their hearts. For them there is disgrace in this world, 
and in the Hereafter a heavy punishment. -42- (They are fond of) listening to falsehood, of 
devouring anything forbidden. If they do come to thee, either judge between them, or decline to 
interfere. If thou decline, they cannot hurt thee in the least. If thou judge, judge in equity 