Paradise): they fight in His Cause, and slay and are slain: a promise binding on Him in Truth, 
through the Law, the Gospel, and the Qur'an: and who is more faithful to his Covenant than 
Allah? Then rejoice in the bargain which ye have concluded: that is the achievement supreme. 
-112- Those that turn (to Allah) in repentance; that serve him, and praise him; that wander in 
devotion to the cause of Allah; that bow down and prostrate themselves in prayer; that enjoin 
good and forbid evil; and observe the limits set by Allah- (these do rejoice). So proclaim the glad 
tidings to the Believers. -113- It is not fitting, for the Prophet and those who believe, that they 
should pray for forgiveness for Pagans, even though they be of kin, after it is clear to them that 
they are companions of the Fire. -114- And Abraham prayed for his father's forgiveness only 
because of a promise he had made to him. But when it became clear to him that he was an 
enemy to Allah, he dissociated himself from him: for Abraham was most tender hearted, 
forbearing. -115- And Allah will not mislead a people after he hath guided them, in order that he 
may make clear to them what to fear (and avoid) for Allah hath knowledge of all things. -116- 
Unto Allah belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth. He giveth life and He taketh it. 
Except for him ye have no protector nor helper. -117- Allah turned with favour to the prophet, 
the Muhajirs, and the Ansar, who followed him in a time of distress, after that the hearts of a part 
of them had nearly swerved (for duty); but he turned to them (also): for he is unto them most 
kind, Most Merciful. -118- (He turned in mercy also) to the three who were left behind; (they left 
guilty) to such a degree that the earth seemed constrained to them, for all its spaciousness, and 
their (very) souls seemed straitened to them- and they perceived that there is no fleeing from 
Allah (and no refuge) but to Himself. Then He turned to them, that they might repent: for Allah is 
Oft-Returning, Most Merciful. -119- O ye who believe! Fear Allah and be with those who are true 
(in word and deed). -120- It was not fitting for the people of Medinah and the Bedouin Arabs of 
the neighbourhood, to refuse to follow Allah's Messenger, nor to prefer their own lives to his: 
because nothing could they suffer or do, but was reckoned to their credit as a deed of 
righteousness- whether they suffered thirst, or fatigue, or hunger, in the Cause of Allah, or trod 
paths to raise the ire of the Unbelievers, or received any injury whatever from an enemy: for 
Allah suffereth not the reward to be lost of those who do good- -121- Nor could they spend 
anything (for the cause) small or great nor cut across a valley, but the deed is inscribed to their 
credit; that Allah may requite their deed with the best (possible reward). -122- Nor should the 
Believers all go forth together: if a contingent from every expedition remained behind, they could 
devote themselves to studies in religion, and admonish the people when they return to them, 
that thus they (may learn) to guard themselves (against evil). -123- O ye who believe fight the 
Unbelievers who gird you about, and let them find firmness in you: and know that Allah is with 
those who fear him. -124- Whenever there cometh down a Surah, some of them say: which of 
you has had his Faith increased by it? yea, those who believe, their Faith is increased, and they 
do rejoice. -125- But those in whose hearts is a disease, it will add doubt to their doubt, and they 
will die in a state of unbelief  