of peoples, evolved for mankind. Enjoining what is right, forbidding what is wrong, and believing 
in Allah. If only the People of the Book had Faith: it were best for them: among them are some 
who have Faith, but most of them are perverted transgressors. -111- They will do you know 
harm, barring a trifling annoyance; if they come out to fight you, they will show you their backs, 
and no help shall they get. -112- Shame is pitched over them (like a tent) wherever they are 
found, except when under a convenient (of protection) from Allah and from men; they draw on 
themselves wrath from Allah, and pitched over them is (the tent of) destitution. This because 
they rejected the Signs of Allah, and slew the prophets in defiance of right; this because they 
rebelled and transgressed beyond bounds. -113- Not all of them are alike: of the People of the 
Book are a portion that stand (for the right); they rehearse the Signs of Allah all night long, and 
they prostrate themselves in adoration -114- They believe in Allah and the Last Day; they enjoin 
what is right, and forbid what is wrong; and they hasten (in emulation) in (all) good works: they 
are in the ranks of the righteous -115- Of the Allah that they do, nothing will be rejected of them; 
for Allah knoweth well those that do right. -116- Those who reject Faith, neither their 
possessions nor their (numerous) progeny will avail them aught against Allah: they will be 
companions of the fire, dwelling therein (forever). -117- What they spend in the life of this 
(material) world may be likened to a wind which brings a nipping frost: it strikes and destroys the 
harvest of men who have wronged their own souls: it is not Allah that hath wronged them, but 
they wronged themselves. -118- Ye who believe take not into your intimacy those outside your 
ranks: they will not fail to corrupt you. They only desire your ruin: rank hatred has already 
appeared from your mouths: what their hearts conceal is far worse. We have made plain to you 
the Signs, if ye have wisdom. -119- Ah you are those who love them, but they love you not, 
though ye believe in the whole of the book, when they meet you, they say, we believe: but when 
they are alone, they bite off the very tips of their fingers at you in their rage: Allah knoweth well 
all the secret of the heart. -120- If ought that is good befalls you, it grieves them; but if some 
misfortune overtakes you, they rejoice at it. But if ye are constant and do right, not the least 
harm will their cunning do to you; for Allah compasseth round about all that they do. -121- 
Remember that morning thou didst leave thy household (early) to post the faithful at their 
stations for battle: and Allah heareth and knoweth all things: -122- Remember two of your 
parties meditated cowardice; but Allah was their protector, and in Allah should the faithful (ever) 
put their trust. -123- Allah had helped you at Badr, when you were a contemptible little force; 
then fear Allah; thus may ye show your gratitude. -124- Remember thou saidst to the faithful: is 
it not enough for you that Allah should help you with three thousand angels (specially) sent 
down? -125- Yea, if ye remain firm, and act aright, even if the enemy should rush here on you in 
hot haste, your Lord would help you with five thousand angels making a terrific onslaught. -126- 
Allah made it but a message of hope for you, and an assurance to your hearts: (in any case) 
there is no help except from Allah, the exalted, the wise:  
22  