67  
-52- Say: can you expect for us (and fate) other than one of two glorious things (martyrdom or 
victory)? but we can expect for you either that Allah will send his punishment from Himself, or by 
our hands. So wait (expectant); we too will wait with you. -53- Say: spend (for the cause) 
willingly or unwilling: not from you will it be accepted: for ye are indeed a people rebellious and 
wicked. -54- The only reasons why their contributions are not accepted are: that they reject 
Allah and His Messenger; that they come to prayer without earnestness; and that they offer 
contributions unwillingly. -55- Let not their wealth nor their (following in) sons dazzle thee: in 
reality Allah's plan is to punish them with these things in this life, and that their souls may perish 
in their (very) denial of Allah. -56- They swear by Allah that they are indeed of you; but they are 
not of you: yet they are afraid (to appear in their true colours). -57- If they could find a place to 
flee to, or caves, or a place of concealment, they would turn straightway thereto, with an 
obstinate rush. -58- And among them are men who slander thee in the matter of (the distribution 
of) the alms: if they are given part thereof, they are pleased, but if not, behold they are indignant 
-59- If only they had been content with what Allah and His Messenger gave them, and had said, 
"Sufficient unto us is Allah! Allah and His Messenger will soon give us of His Bounty: to Allah do 
we turn our hopes (that would have been the right course). -60- Alms are for the poor and the 
needy, and those employed to administer the (funds); for those whose hearts have been 
(recently) reconciled (to the Truth); for those in bondage and in debt; in the cause of Allah; and 
for the wayfarer: (thus is it) ordained by Allah, and Allah is full of knowledge and wisdom. -61- 
Among them are men who molest the Prophet and say, "He is (all) ear." Say, "He listens to what 
is best for you: he believes in Allah, has faith in the Believers, and is a Mercy to those of you 
who believe." But those who molest the Prophet will have a grievous penalty. -62- To you they 
swear by Allah. In order to please you: but it is more fitting that they should please Allah and His 
Messenger, if they are Believers. -63- Know they not that for those who oppose Allah and His 
Messenger, is the Fire of Hell?- Wherein they shall dwell. That is the supreme disgrace. -64- 
The Hypocrites are afraid lest a Surah should be sent down about them, showing them what is 
(really passing) in their hearts. Say: "Mock ye! But verily Allah will bring to light all that ye fear 
(should be revealed)." -65- If thou dost question them, they declare (with emphasis): "We were 
only talking idly and in play." Say: "Was it at Allah, and His Signs, and His Messenger, that ye 
were mocking?" -66- Make ye no excuses: ye have rejected Faith after ye had accepted it. If We 
pardon some of you, We will punish others amongst you, for that they are in sin. -67- The 
Hypocrites, men and women, (have an understanding) with each other: they enjoin evil, and 
forbid what is just, and are close with their hands. They have forgotten Allah; so He hath 
forgotten them. Verily the Hypocrites are rebellious and perverse. -68- Allah hath promised the 
Hypocrites men and women, and the rejecters, of Faith, the fir of Hell: therein shall they dwell: 
sufficient is it for them: for them is the curse of Allah, and an enduring punishment, -69- As in 