swearing by Allah: we meant no more than good will and conciliation -63- Those men, Allah 
knows what is in their hearts; so keep clear of them, but admonish them, and speak to them a 
word to reach their very souls. -64- We sent not a Messenger, but to be obeyed, in accordance 
with the Will of Allah. If they had only, when they were unjust to themselves, come unto thee 
and asked Allah's forgiveness, and the Messenger had asked forgiveness for them, they would 
have found Allah indeed Oft-Returning, Most Merciful. -65- But no, by the Lord, they can have 
no (real) Faith, until they make thee judge in all disputes between them, and find in their souls 
no resistance against thy decisions, but accept them with the fullest conviction. -66- If we had 
ordered them to sacrifice their lives or to leave their homes, very few of them would have done 
it: but if they had done what they were (actually) told, it would have been best for them, and 
would have gone farthest to strengthen their (Faith) -67- And we should then have given them 
from our presence a great reward; -68- And we should have shown them the straight way. -69- 
All who obey Allah and the Messenger are in the Company of those on whom is the Grace of 
Allah, of the Prophets (who teach), the Sincere (lovers of Truth), the Witnesses (who testify), 
and the Righteous (who do good): ah! what a beautiful Fellowship!  
-70- Such is the Bounty from Allah: and sufficient is it that Allah knoweth all. -71- Ye who believe 
take your precautions, and either go forth in parties or go forth all together. -72- There are 
certainly among you men who would tarry behind: if a misfortune befalls you, they say: Allah did 
favour us in that we were not present among them. -73- But if good fortune comes to you from 
Allah, they would be sure to say as if there had never been ties of affection between you and 
them oh I wish I had been with them; a fine thing should I then have made of it -74- Let those 
fight in the cause of Allah who sell the life of this world for the Hereafter. To him who fighteth in 
the cause of Allah, whether he is slain or gets victory soon shall we give him a reward of great 
(value). -75- And why should ye not fight in the cause of Allah and of those who, being weak, 
are ill treated (and oppressed)? whose cry is: our Lord rescue us from this town, whose people 
are oppressors; and raise for us from thee one who will protect; and raise for us from thee one 
who will help -76- Those who believe fight in the cause of Allah, and those who reject Faith fight 
in the cause of evil: so fight ye against the friends of Satan: feeble indeed is the cunning of 
Satan -77- Fast thou not turned thy vision to those who were told to hold back their hands (from 
fight) but establish regular Prayers and spend in regular Charity? when (at length) the order for 
fighting was  
30  
issued to them, behold a section of them feared men as or even more than they should have 
feared Allah: they said: our Lord why hast thou ordered us to fight? wouldst thou not grant us 
respite to our (natural) term, near (enough)? say: short is the enjoyment of this world: the 
Hereafter is the best for those who do right: never will ye be dealt with unjustly in the very least 
-78- Wherever ye are, death will find you out, even if ye are in towers built up strong and high if 