humility; and (once again) we commanded them: transgress not in the matter of the Sabbath. 
And we took from them a solemn Covenant. -155- (They have incurred divine displeasure): in 
that they broke their Covenant; that they rejected the Signs of Allah; that they slew the 
Messengers in defiance of right; that they said, "Our hearts are the wrappings (which preserve 
Allah's word; we need no more)"- nay, Allah hath set the seal on their hearts for their 
blasphemy, and little is it they believe- -156- That they rejected Faith; that they uttered against 
Mary a grave false charge; -157- That they said (in boast), "We killed Christ Jesus the son of 
Mary, the Messenger of Allah"- but they killed him not, nor crucified him, but so it was made to 
appear to them, and those who differ therein are full of doubts, with no (certain) knowledge, but 
only conjecture to follow, for of a surety they killed him not- -158- Nay, Allah raised him up unto 
Himself; and Allah is Exalted in Power, Wise- -159- And there is no one of the People of the 
Book but must believe in him before his death; and on the day of judgment he will be a witness 
against them- -160- For the iniquity of the Jews we made unlawful for them certain (foods) good 
and wholesome which had been lawful for them- in that they hindered many from Allah's way- 
-161- That they took usury, though they were forbidden; and that they devoured men's 
substance wrongfully- We have prepared for those among them who reject Faith a grievous 
punishment. -162- But those among them who are well-grounded in knowledge, and the 
Believers, believe in what hath been revealed to thee and what was revealed before thee: and 
(especially) those who establish regular prayer and practise regular charity and believe in Allah 
and in the Last Day: to them shall We soon give a great reward. -163- We have sent thee 
inspiration, as We sent it to Noah and the Messengers after him: We sent inspiration to 
Abraham, IsmaTil, Isaac, Jacob and the Tribes, to Jesus, Job, Jonah, Aaron, and Solomon, and 
to David We gave the Psalms. -164- Of some messengers We have already told thee the story; 
of others We have not- and to Moses Allah spoke direct- -165- Messengers who gave good 
news as well as warning, that mankind, after (the coming) of the messengers, should have no 
plea against Allah: for Allah is Exalted in Power, Wise. -166- But Allah beareth witness that what 
he hath sent unto thee he hath sent from his (own) knowledge, and the angels bear witness: but 
enough is Allah for a witness. -167- Those who reject Faith and keep off (men) from the way of 
Allah, have verily strayed far, far away from the path. -168- Those who reject Faith and do 
wrong, Allah will not forgive them nor guide them to any way -169- Except the way of Hell, to 
dwell therein forever. And this to Allah is easy. -170- O mankind! the Messenger hath come to 
you in truth from Allah: believe in him; it is best for you. But if ye reject Faith, to Allah belong all 
things in the heavens and on earth: and Allah is All- Knowing, All-Wise. -171- O People of the 
Book! commit no excesses in your religion: nor say of Allah aught but the truth. Christ Jesus the 
son of Mary was (no more than) a Messenger of Allah, and His Word, which He bestowed on 
Mary and a Spirit proceeding from Him: so believe in Allah and His Messengers. Say not 
"Trinity": desist: it will be better for you: for Allah is one God: glory be to him: (far exalted is He) 
above having a son. To him belong all things in the heavens and on earth. And enough is Allah 
as a Disposer of affairs.  