completing it), send an offering for sacrifice, such as ye may find, and do not shave your heads 
until the offering reaches the place of sacrifice; and when ye are in peaceful condition (again), of 
any one wishes to continue the Umrah on to the Hajj, he must make an offering, such as he can 
afford, but if he cannot afford it, he should fast three days during the Hajj and seven days in all. 
This is for those whose household is not in (the precincts of) the Sacred Mosque. And fear 
Allah, and know that Allah, is strict in punishment. -197- For Hajj are the months well known. If 
any one undertakes that duty therein, let there be no obscenity, nor wickedness, nor wrangling 
in the Hajj. And whatever good ye do, (be sure) Allah knoweth it. And take a provision (with you) 
for the journey, but the best of provisions is right conduct. So fear me, o ye that are wise. -198- 
It is no crime in you if ye seek of the Bounty of your Lord (during pilgrimage). Then when ye 
pour down from (mount) Arafat, celebrate the praises of Allah at the Sacred Monument, and 
celebrate His praises as He has directed you, even though, before this, ye went astray. -199- 
Then pass on at a quick pace from the place whence it is usual for the multitude so to do, and 
ask for Allah's forgiveness. For Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -200- So when ye have 
accomplished your holy rites, celebrate the praises of Allah, as ye used to celebrate the praises 
of your fathers - yea, with far more heart and soul. There are men who say: "Our Lord! Give us 
(thy bounties) in this world!" But they will have no portion in the Hereafter. -201- And there are 
men who say: "Our Lord! Give us good in this world and and good in the Hereafter, and defend 
us from the torment of the fire!" -202- To these will be allotted what they have earned; and Allah 
is quick in account. -203- Celebrate the praises of Allah during the Appointed Days. But if any 
one hastens to leave in two days, there is no blame on him, and if any one stays on, there is no 
blame on him, if his aim is to do right. Then fear Allah, and know that ye will surely be gathered 
unto Him. -204- There is the type of man whose speech about this world's life may dazzle thee, 
and he calls Allah to witness about what is in his heart; yet is he the most contentious of 
enemies. -205- When he turns his back, his aim everywhere is to spread mischief through the 
earth and destroy crops and cattle. But Allah loveth not mischief. -206- When it is said to him, 
fear Allah, he is led by arrogance to (more) crime. Enough for him is Hell; an evil bed indeed (to 
lie on)! -207- And there is the type of man who gives his life to earn the pleasure of Allah; and 
Allah is full of kindness to (his) devotees. -208- O ye who believe! enter into Islam whole 
heatedly; and follow not the footsteps of the evil one; for he is to you an avowed enemy. -209- If 
ye backslide after the clear (Signs) have come to you, then know that Allah is exalted in power, 
wise. -210- Will they wait until Allah comes to them in canopies of clouds, with angels (in his 
train) and the question is (thus) settled? but to Allah do all questions go back (for decision). 
-211- Ask the Children of Israel how many clear (Signs) we have sent them. But if any one, after 
Allah's favour has come to him, substitutes (something else), Allah is strict in punishment. -212- 
The life of this world is alluring to those who reject Faith, and they scoff at those who believe. 
But the righteous will be above them on the day of resurrection; for Allah bestows his 
abundance without measure on whom he will. -213- Mankind was one single nation, and Allah 
sent Messengers with glad tidings and warnings; and with them He sent the Book in truth, to 