Allah is well acquainted with all things. -98- Know ye that Allah is strict in punishment and that 
Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -99- The Messenger's duty is but to proclaim (the 
Message). But Allah knoweth all that ye reveal and ye conceal. -100- Say: "Not equal are things 
that are bad and things that are good, even though the abundance of the bad may dazzle thee; 
so fear Allah, O ye that understand; that (so) ye may prosper." -101- Ye who believe ask not 
questions about things which, if made plain to you, may cause you trouble. But if ye ask about 
things when the Quran is being revealed, they will be made plain to you, Allah will forgive those: 
for Allah is Oft-Forgiving most forbearing. -102- Some people before you did ask such 
questions, and on that account lost their Faith. -103- It was not Allah who instituted 
(superstitions like those of) a slit ear she camel, or a she camel let loose for free pasture, or idol 
sacrifice for free pasture, or idol sacrifice for twin births in animals, or stallion camels freed from 
work it is blasphemers who invent a lie against Allah; but most of them lack wisdom. -104- 
When it is said to them: "Come to what Allah hath revealed; come to the Messenger": they say: 
"Enough for us are the ways we found our fathers following." What! even though their fathers 
were void of knowledge and guidance? -105- O ye who believe guard your own souls: if ye 
follow (right) guidance, no hurt can come to you from those who stray. The goal of you all is to 
Allah: it is he that will show you the truth of all that ye do. -106- O ye who believe when death 
approaches any of you, (take) witnesses among yourselves when making bequests, two just 
men of your own (brotherhood) or others from outside if ye are journeying through the earth, 
and the chance of death befalls you (thus). If ye doubt (their truth), detain them doth after 
prayer, and let them both swear by Allah: we wish not in this for any worldly gain, even though 
the (beneficiary) be our near relation: we shall hide not the evidence before Allah: if we do, then 
behold the sin be upon us -107- But if it gets known that these two were guilty of the sin (of 
perjury), let two others stand forth in their places, nearest in kin from among those who claim a 
lawful right: let them swear by Allah: we affirm that our witness is truer than that of those two, 
and that we have not trespassed (beyond the truth): if we did, behold the wrong be upon us 
-108- That is most suitable: that they may give the evidence in its true nature and shape, or else 
they would fear that other oaths would be taken after their oaths. But fear Allah, and listen (to 
his counsel): for Allah guideth not a rebellious people. -109- One day will Allah gather the 
Messengers together, and ask: "What was the response ye received (from men to your 
teaching)?" They will say: "We have no knowledge: it is Thou who knowest in full all that is 
hidden." -110- Then will Allah say: "O Jesus the son of Mary! recount my favour to thee and to 
thy mother. Behold! I strengthened thee with the holy spirit, so that thou didst speak to the 
people in childhood and in maturity. Behold! I taught thee the Book and Wisdom, the Law and 
the Gospel. And behold! thou makest out of clay, as it were, the figure of a bird, by My leave, 
and thou breathest into it, and it becometh a bird by My leave, and thou healest those born 
blind, and the lepers, by My leave. And  
42  