judge between people in matters wherein they differed; but the People of the Book, after the 
clear Signs came to them, did not differ among themselves, except through selfish contumacy. 
Allah by His Grace guided the Believers to the Truth, concerning that wherein they differed. For 
Allah guides whom He will to a path that is straight. -214- Or do ye think that ye shall enter the 
Garden (of Bliss) without such (trials) as came to those who passed away before you? They 
encountered suffering and adversity, and were so shaken in spirit  
11  
that even the Messenger and those of faith who were with him cried: "When (will come) the help 
of Allah" Ah! Verily, the help of Allah is (always) near! -215- They ask thee what they should 
spend (in Charity). Say: whatever ye spend that is good, is for parents and kindred and orphans 
and those in want and for wayfarers. And whatever ye do that is good, Allah knoweth it well. 
-216- Fighting is prescribed for you, and ye dislike it. But it is possible that ye dislike a thing 
which is good for you, and that ye love a thing which is bad for you. But Allah knoweth, and ye 
know not. -217- They ask thee concerning fighting in the prohibited month. Say: fighting therein 
is a grave (offence); but graver is it in the sight of Allah to prevent access to the sacred mosque, 
and drive out its members. Tumult and oppression are worse than slaughter. Nor will they cease 
fighting you until they turn you back from your Faith if they can. And if any of you turn back from 
their Faith and die in unbelief, their works will bear no fruit in this life and in the Hereafter; they 
will be companion of the fire and will abide therein. -218- Those who believed and those who 
suffered exile and fought (and strove and struggled) in the path of Allah, they have the hope of 
the mercy of Allah: and Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -219- They ask thee concerning 
wine and gambling. Say in them is great sin, and some profit for men; but the sin is greater than 
the profit they ask thee how much they are to spend, say: what is beyond your needs. Thus doth 
Allah make clear to you his Signs: in order that ye may consider- -220- (their bearings) on this 
life and the Hereafter. They ask thee concerning orphans. Say: the best thing to do is what is for 
their good; if ye mix. Their affairs with yours they are your brethren; but Allah knows the men 
who means mischief from the men who means good. And if Allah had wished. He could have 
put you into difficulties: he is indeed exalted in power, wise. -221- Don't marry unbelieving 
women (idolaters) until they believe: a slave woman who believes is better than unbelieving 
woman. Even though she allure you. Nor marry (your girls) to unbelievers until they believe: a 
man slave who believes is better than an unbeliever even though he allure you. Unbelievers do 
(but) beckon you to the Fire. But Allah beckons by His Grace to the Garden (of Bliss) and 
forgiveness, and makes His Signs clear to mankind: that they may receive admonition. -222- 
They ask thee concerning women's courses. Say: they are a hurt and a pollution, so keep away 
from women in their courses, and do not approach them until they are clean. But when they 
have purified themselves, ye may approach them in any manner, time, or place ordained for you 
by Allah. For Allah loves those who turn to him constantly and he loves those who keep 