much as I desire to give you (good) counsel, if it be that Allah willeth to leave you astray: he is 
your Lord and to him will ye return -35- Or do they say, he has forged it? say: if I had forged it, 
on me were my sin and I am free of the sins of which ye are guilty -36- It was revealed to Noah: 
none of thy people will believe except those who have believed already so grieve no longer over 
their (evil) deeds. -37- But construct an Ark under our eyes and our inspiration, and address me 
no (further) on behalf of those who are in sin: for they are about to be overwhelmed (in the 
flood). -38- Forthwith he (starts) constructing the Ark: every time that the chiefs of his people 
passed by him, they threw ridicule on him. He said: if ye ridicule us now, we (in our turn) can 
look down on you with ridicule likewise -39- But soon will ye know who it is on whom will 
descend a penalty that will cover them with shame, on whom will be unloosed a penalty lasting:  
78  
-40- At length, behold there came our command, and the fountains of the earth gushed forth we 
said: embark therein, of each kind two, male and female, and your family except those against 
whom the word has already gone forth, and the Believers. But only a few believed with him. -41- 
So he said: embark ye on the Ark, in the name of Allah, whether it move or be at rest for my 
Lord is, be sure, Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful -42- So the Ark floated with them on the waves 
(towering) like mountains, and Noah called out to his son, who had separated himself (from the 
rest): O my son embark with us, and be not with the Unbelievers -43- The son replied: I will 
betake myself to some mountain: it will save me from the water. Noah said: this day nothing can 
save, from the command of Allah, any but those on whom he hath mercy and the waves came 
between them, and the son was among those overwhelmed in the flood. -44- Then the word 
went forth: O earth swallow up thy water, and O sky withhold (thy rain) and the water abated, 
and the matter was ended. The Ark rested on mount Judi, and the word went forth: Away with 
those who do wrong -45- And Noah called upon his Lord, and said: O my Lord surely my son is 
of my family and thy promise is true, and thou art the justest of judges -46- He said: O Noah he 
is not of thy family: for his conduct is unrighteous. So ask not of me that of which thou hast no 
knowledge I give thee counsel, lest thou act like the ignorant -47- Noah said: O my Lord I do 
seek refuge with thee, lest I ask thee for that of which I have no knowledge. And unless thou 
forgive me and have mercy on me, I should indeed be lost -48- The word came: O Noah come 
down (from the Ark) with peace from us, and blessing on thee and on some of the peoples (who 
will spring) from those with thee: but (there will be other) peoples to whom we shall grant their 
pleasures (for a time), but in the end will a grievous penalty reach them from us. -49- Such are 
some of the stories of the unseen, which we have revealed unto thee: before this, neither thou 
nor thy people knew them. So persevere patiently: for the end is for those who are righteous. 
-50- To the Aad people (we sent) Hud, one of their own brethren. He said: O my people worship 
Allah ye have no other god but him. (your other gods) ye do nothing but invent -51- O my people 
I ask of you no reward for this (message). My reward is from none but Him Who created me: will 