Allah and His Messenger: if any contend against Allah and His Messenger, Allah is strict in 
punishment. -14- Thus (will it be said): taste ye then of the (punishment): for those who resist 
Allah, is the penalty of the fire. -15- O ye who believe when ye meet the Unbelievers in hostile 
array, never turn your backs to them. -16- If any do turn his back to them on such a day unless it 
be in a stratagem of war, or to retreat to a troop (of his own) he draws on himself the wrath of 
Allah, and his abode is Hell, an evil refuge (indeed)! -17- It is not ye who slew them; it was Allah: 
when thou threwest (a handful of dust), it was not thy act, but Allah's: in order that He might test 
the Believers by a gracious trial from Himself: for Allah is He Who heareth and knoweth (all 
things). -18- That, and also because Allah is He Who makes feeble the plans and stratagems of 
the Unbelievers. -19- (O Unbelievers!) if ye prayed for victory and judgement, now hath the 
judgement come to you: if ye desist (from wrong), it will be best for you: if ye return (to the 
attack), so shall We. Not the least good will your forces be to you even if they were multiplied: 
for verily Allah is with those who believe! -20- O ye who believe! obey Allah and His Messenger, 
and turn not away from him when ye hear (him speak). -21- Nor be like those who say, "We 
hear," but listen not: -22- For the worst of beasts in the sight of Allah are the deaf and the dumb, 
those who understand not. -23- If Allah had found in them any good, he would indeed have 
made them listen: (as it is), if he had made them listen, they would but have turned back and 
declined (Faith). -24- O ye who believe! give your response to Allah and His Messenger, when 
He calleth you to that which will give you life; and know that Allah cometh in between a man and 
his heart, and that it is He to Whom ye shall (all) be gathered. -25- And fear tumult or 
oppression, which affecteth not in particular (only) those of you who do wrong: and know that 
Allah is strict in punishment. -26- Call to mind when ye were a small (band), despised through 
the land, and afraid that men might despoil and kidnap you; but he provided a safe asylum for 
you, strengthened you with his aid, and gave you good things for sustenance: that ye might be 
grateful. -27- O ye that believe! betray not the trust of Allah and the Messenger, nor 
misappropriate knowingly things entrusted to you. -28- And know ye that your possessions and 
your progeny are but a trial; and that it is Allah with whom lies your highest reward. -29- O ye 
who believe if ye fear Allah, he will grant you a Criterion (to judge between right and wrong), 
remove from you (all) evil (that may afflict) you, and forgive you: for Allah is the Lord of Grace 
unbounded. -30- Remember how the Unbelievers plotted against thee, to keep thee in bonds, or 
slay thee, or get thee out (of thy home). They plot and plan, and Allah too plans, but the best of 
planners is Allah. -31- When our Signs are rehearsed to them, they say: we have heard this 
(before): if we wished, we could say (words) like these: these are nothing but tales of the 
ancients.  
62  
-32- Remember who they said: O Allah if this is indeed the truth from thee, Rain down on us a 
shower of stones from the sky, or send us a grievous penalty. -33- But Allah was not going to 
send them a penalty whilst thou wast amongst them; nor was he going to send it whilst they 