with them on a footing of kindness and equity. If ye take a dislike to them it may be that ye 
dislike a thing, and Allah brings about through it a great deal of good. -20- But if ye decide to 
take one wife in place of another, even if ye had given the latter a whole treasure for dower, 
take not the least bit of it back: would ye take it by slander and a manifest wrong?  
27  
-21- And how could ye take it when ye have gone in when ye have gone in unto each other, and 
they have taken from you a solemn Covenant? -22- And marry not women whom your fathers 
married, except what is past: it was shameful and odious, an abominable custom indeed. -23- 
Prohibited to you (for marriage) are: your mothers, daughters, sisters; father's sisters, mother's 
sisters; brother's daughters, sister's daughters; foster mothers (who gave you suck), foster 
sisters; your wives' mothers; your step daughters under your guardianship, born of your wives to 
whom ye have gone in, no prohibition if ye have not gone in; (those who have been) wives of 
your sons proceeding from your loins; and two sisters in wedlock at one and the same time, for 
Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful; 5th Section (Juzu') -24- Also (prohibited are) women 
already married, except those whom your right hands possess: thus hath Allah ordained 
(prohibitions) against you: except for these, all others are lawful, provided ye seek (them in 
marriage) with gifts from your property, desiring chastity, not lust, seeing that ye derive benefit 
from them, give them their dowers (at least) as prescribed; but if, after a dower is prescribed, ye 
agree mutually (to vary it), there is no blame on you, and Allah is All-Knowing All-Wise. -25- If 
any of you have not the means wherewith to wed free believing women, they may wed believing 
girls from among those whom your right hands possess: and Allah hath full knowledge about 
your Faith. Ye are one from another: wed them with the leave of their owners, and give them 
their dowers, according to what is reasonable: they should be chaste, not lustful, nor taking 
paramours: when they are taken in wedlock, if they fall into shame, their punishment is half that 
for free women. This (permission) is for those among you who fear sin; but it is better for you 
that ye practise self restraint. And Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -26- Allah doth wish to 
make clear to you and to show you the ordinances of those before you; and (he doth wish to) 
turn to you (in mercy): and Allah is All-Knowing, All-Wise. -27- Allah doth wish to turn to you, but 
the wish of those who follow their lusts is that ye should turn away (from him), far, far away. -28- 
Allah doth wish to lighten your (difficulties): for man was created weak (in flesh). -29- O ye who 
believe eat not up your property among yourselves in vanities: but let there be amongst you 
traffic and trade by mutual good will: nor kill (or destroy) yourselves: for verily Allah hath been to 
you Most Merciful -30- If any do that in rancour and injustice, soon shall we cast them into the 
fire: and easy it is for Allah. -31- If ye (but) eschew the most heinous of the things which ye are 
forbidden to do, we shall expel out of you all the evil in your, and admit you to a gate of great 
honour. -32- And in no wise covet those things in which Allah hath bestowed his gifts more 
freely on some of you than on others: to men is allotted what they earn, and to women what 
they earn: but ask Allah of his Bounty. For Allah hath full knowledge of all things. -33- To 