fight? they said: how could we refuse to fight in the cause of Allah, seeing that we were turned 
out of our homes and our families? but when they were commanded to fight; they turned back, 
except a small band among them. But Allah has full knowledge of those who do wrong. -247- 
Their prophet said to them: Allah hath appointed Talut as king over you. How they said: how can 
he exercise authority over us when we are better fitted than he to exercise authority, and he is 
not even gifted, with wealth in abundance? he said: Allah hath chosen him above you, and hath 
gifted him abundantly with knowledge and bodily prowess: Allah granteth his authority to whom 
he pleaseth. Allah careth for all, and he knoweth all things. -248- And (further) their prophet said 
to them: a sign of his authority is that there shall come to you the ark of the Covenant, with (an 
assurance) therein of security from your Lord, and the relics left by the family of Moses and the 
family of Aaron, carried by angels. In this is a symbol for you if ye indeed have Faith. -249- 
When Talut set forth with the armies, he said: "Allah will test you at the stream: if any drinks of 
its water, he goes not with my army: only those who taste not of it go with me: a mere sip out of 
the hand is excused." But they all drank of it, except a few. When they crossed the river- he and 
the faithful ones with him, they said: "This day we cannot cope with Goliath and his forces." But 
those who were convinced that they must meet Allah, said: "How oft, by Allah's will, hath a small 
force vanquished a big one? Allah is with those who steadfastly persevere." -250- When they 
advanced to meet Goliath and his forces, they prayed: "Our Lord! pour out constancy on us and 
make our steps firm: help us against those that reject Faith." -251- By Allah's will, they routed 
them; and David slew Goliath; and Allah gave him power and wisdom and taught him whatever 
(else) he willed. And did not Allah check one set of people by means of another, the earth would 
indeed be full of mischief: but Allah is full of Bounty to all the worlds. -252- These are the Signs 
of Allah: we rehearse them to thee in truth: verily thou art one of the Messengers. 3rd Section 
(Juzu') -253- Those Messengers we endowed with gifts, some above others: to one of them 
Allah spoke; others He raised to degrees (of honour); to Jesus, the son of Mary, We gave Clear 
(Signs), and strengthened him with the Holy Spirit. If Allah had so willed, succeeding 
generations would not have fought among each other, after Clear (Signs) and come to them but 
they (chose) to wrangle, some believing and others rejecting. If Allah had so willed, they would 
not have fought each other; but Allah fulfilleth His plan.  
-254- O ye who believe! spend out of (the bounties) we have provided for you, before the day 
comes when no bargaining (will avail), nor friendship nor intercession. Those who reject Faith 
they are the wrongdoers. -255- Allah! there is no god but He, the living, the self subsisting, 
eternal. No slumber can seize him nor heavens and on earth. Who is there can intercede in his 
presence except as he permitteth? he knoweth what (appeareth to his creatures as) before or 
after or behind them. Nor shall they compass aught of his knowledge except as he willeth. His 
throne doth extend over the heavens and the earth, and he feeleth no fatigue in guarding and 
preserving them for he is the most high, the supreme (in glory). -256- Let there be no 
compulsion in religion: truth stands out clear from error: whoever rejects evil and believes in 