us is their return: ultimately Allah is witness. To all that they do. -47- To every people (was sent) 
a Messenger: when their Messenger comes (before them), the matter will be judged between 
them with justice, and they will not be wronged. -48- They say: when will this promise come to 
pass, if ye speak the truth? -49- Say: I have no power over any harm or profit to myself except 
as Allah willeth. To every people is a term appointed: when their term is reached, not an hour 
can they cause delay, nor (an hour) can they advance (it in anticipation). -50- Say: Do ye see, if 
his punishment should come to you by day, what portion of it would the sinners wish to hasten? 
-51- Would ye then believe in it at last, when it actually cometh to pass? (it will then be said:) Ah 
now? and ye wanted (Aforetime) to hasten it on! -52- At length will be said to the wrongdoers: 
Taste ye the enduring punishment ye get but the recompense of what ye earned! -53- They 
seek to be informed by thee: is that true? say: Aye by my Lord it is the very truth and ye cannot 
frustrate it! -54- Every soul that hath sinned, if it possessed all that is on earth, would fain give it 
in ransom: they would declare (their) repentance when they see the penalty: but the judgment 
between them will be with justice, and no wrong will be done unto them. -55- Is it not (the case) 
that to Allah belongeth whatever is in the heavens and on earth? is it not (the case) that Allah's 
promise is assuredly true? yet most of them understand not. -56- It is He Who giveth life and 
who taketh it, and to him shall ye all be brought back. -57- O mankind there hath come to you a 
direction from your Lord and a healing for the (diseases) in your hearts, and for those who 
believe, a Guidance and a mercy.  
74  
-58- Say: in the Bounty of Allah. And in his mercy, in that let them rejoice: that is better than the 
(wealth) they hoard. -59- Say: see ye what things Allah hath sent down to you for sustenance? 
yet ye hold forbidden some things thereof and (some things) lawful. Say: hath Allah indeed 
permitted you, or do ye invent (things) to attribute to Allah? -60- And what think those who 
invent lie against Allah, of the day of judgment? verily Allah is full of Bounty to mankind, but 
most of them are ungrateful. -61- In whatever business thou mayest be, and whatever portion 
thou mayest be reciting from the Quran, and whatever deed ye (mankind) may be doing, we are 
witnesses thereof when ye are deeply engrossed therein. Nor is hidden from thy Lord (so much 
as) the weight of an atom on the earth or in heaven. And not the least and not the greatest of 
these things but are recorded in a clear record. -62- Behold verily on Allah is no fear, nor shall 
they grieve; -63- Those who believe and (constantly) guard against evil; -64- For them are Glad 
tidings, in the life of the present and in the Hereafter: no change can there be in the words of 
Allah. This is indeed the supreme felicity. -65- Let not their speech Grieve thee: for all power 
and honour belong to Allah: it is He Who heareth and knoweth (all things). -66- Behold verily to 
Allah belong all creatures, in the heavens and on earth. What do they follow who worship as his 
partners other than Allah? they follow nothing but fancy, and they do nothing but lie. -67- He it is 
that hath made you the night that ye may rest therein, and the day to make things visible (to 