supplied with sustenance. He said: O Mary whence (comes) this to you? she said: from Allah: 
for Allah provides sustenance to whom he pleases, without measure. -38- There did Zakariya 
pray to his Lord, grant unto me from thee a progeny that is pure: for thou art he that heareth 
prayer  
18  
-39- While he was standing in prayer in the chamber, the angels called unto him: Allah doth give 
thee glad tidings of Yahya, witnessing the truth of a word from Allah, and (be besides) noble, 
chaste, and a prophet, of the (goodly) company of the righteous. -40- He said: O my Lord how 
shall I have a son, seeing I am very old, and my wife is barren? thus, was the answer, doth 
Allah accomplish what he willeth. -41- He said: O my Lord give me a sign thy sign, was the 
answer, shall be that thou shalt speak to no man for three days but with signals. Then celebrate 
the praises of thy Lord again and again, and glorify him in the evening and in the morning. -42- 
Behold the angels said: O Mary Allah hath chosen thee and purified thee chosen thee above the 
women of all nations. -43- O Mary worship thy Lord devoutly: prostrate thyself, and bow down 
(in prayer) with those who bow down. -44- This is part of the tidings of the things unseen, which 
We reveal unto thee (O Prophet) by inspiration: thou wast not with them when they cast lots with 
arrows, as to which of them should be charged with the care of Mary: nor wast thou with them 
when they disputed (the point). -45- Behold! the angels said: "O Mary! Allah giveth thee glad 
tidings of a Word from Him: his name will be Christ Jesus, the son of Mary, held in honour in this 
world and the Hereafter and of (the company of) those nearest to Allah; -46- He shall speak to 
the people in childhood and in maturity. And he shall be (of the company) of the righteous. -47- 
She said: "O my Lord! how shall I have a son when no man hath touched me?" He said: "Even 
so: Allah createth what He willeth: when He hath decreed a Plan, He but saith to it, 'Be', and it 
is! -48- "And Allah will teach him the book and wisdom, the law and the gospel, -49- "And 
(appoint him) a messenger to the Children of Israel, (with this message): I have come to you, 
with a sign from your Lord, in that I make for you out of clay, as it were, the figure of a bird, and 
breathe into it, and it becomes a bird by Allah's leave: and I heal those born blind, and the 
lepers, and I quicken the dead, by Allah's leave; and I declare to you what ye eat, and what ye 
store in your houses. Surely therein is a Sign for you if ye did believe; -50- " '(I have come to 
you), to attest the law which was before me. And to make lawful to you part of what was (before) 
forbidden to you; I have come to you with a Sign from your Lord. So fear Allah, and obey me.' " 
-51- " 'It is Allah who is my Lord and your Lord; then worship Him. This is a way that is straight.' 
" -52- When Jesus found unbelief on their part he said: who will be my helpers to (the work of) 
Allah? said the disciples: we are Allah's helpers: we believe in Allah, and do thou bear witness 
that we are Muslims. -53- "Our Lord! we believe in what Thou hast revealed, and we follow the 
Messenger; then write us down among those who bear witness." -54- And (the Unbelievers) 
plotted and planned, and Allah too planned, and the best of planners is Allah. -55- Behold Allah 