Gardens for them, wherein are delights that endure: -22- They will dwell therein forever. Verily in 
Allah's presence is a reward, the greatest (of all). -23- O ye who believe! Take not for protectors 
your fathers and your brothers if they love infidelity above Faith: if any of you do so, they do 
wrong. -24- Say: if it be that your fathers, your sons, your brothers, your mates, or your kindred; 
the wealth that ye have gained; the commerce in which ye fear a decline: or the dwellings in 
which ye delight- are dearer to you than Allah, or His Messenger, or the striving in his cause- 
then wait until Allah brings about His Decision: and Allah guides not the rebellious. -25- 
Assuredly Allah did help you in many battle fields and on the day of Hunain: behold your great 
numbers elated you, but they availed you naught: the land, for all that it is wide, did constrain 
you, and ye turned back in retreat. -26- But Allah did pour His calm on the Messenger and on 
the Believers, and sent down forces which ye saw not: He punished the Unbelievers: thus doth 
He reward those without Faith. -27- Again will Allah, after this, turn (in mercy) to whom he will: 
for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -28- O ye who believe truly the Pagans are unclean; so 
let them not, after this year of theirs, approach the sacred mosque. And if ye fear poverty, soon 
will Allah enrich you, if he wills, out of his Bounty, for Allah is All-Knowing, All-Wise. -29- Fight 
those who believe not in Allah nor the Last Day, nor hold that forbidden which hath been 
forbidden by Allah and His Messenger, nor acknowledge the Religion of truth, from among the 
People of the Book, until they pay the Jizyah with willing submission, and feel themselves 
subdued. -30- The Jews call Uzair a son of Allah, and the Christians call Christ the son of Allah. 
That is a saying from their mouth; (in this) they but imitate what the Unbelievers of old used to 
say. Allah's curse be on them: how they are deluded away from the truth -31- They take their 
priests and their anchorites to be their lords in derogation of Allah, and (they take as their Lord) 
Christ the son of Mary; yet they were commanded to worship but one Allah: there is no god but 
he. Praise and glory to him: (far is he) from having the partners they associate (with him). -32- 
Fain would they extinguish Allah's light with their mouths, but Allah will not allow but that his light 
should be perfected, even though the Unbelievers may detest (it). -33- It is He Who hath sent 
His Messenger with Guidance and the Religion of Truth, to proclaim it over all religion, even 
though the Pagans may detest (it).  
66  
-34- O ye who believe there are indeed many among the priests and anchorites, who in 
falsehood devour the substance of men and hinder (them) from the way of Allah. And there are 
those who bury gold and silver and spend it not in the way of Allah: announce unto them a most 
grievous penalty -35- On the day when heat will be produced out of that (wealth) in the fire of 
Hell, and with it will be branded their foreheads, their flanks, and their backs. This is the 
(treasure) which ye buried for yourself: taste ye then, the (treasures) ye buried -36- The number 
of months in the sight of Allah is twelve (in a year) so ordained by him the day he created the 
heavens and the earth; of them four are sacred: that is the straight usage. So wrong not yourself 