midst of their enjoyment of our gifts, on a sudden, we called them to account, when lo they were 
plunged in despair! -45- Of the wrongdoers the last remnant was cut off. Praise be to Allah, the 
Cherisher of the worlds. -46- Say: think ye, if Allah took away your hearing and your sight, and 
sealed up your hearts, whoa Allah other than Allah could restore them to you? see how we 
explain the Signs by various (symbols); yet they turn aside. -47- Say: think ye, if the punishment 
of Allah comes to you, whether suddenly or openly, will any be destroyed except those who do 
wrong? -48- We send the Messengers only to give good news and to warn: so those who 
believe and mend (their lives)- upon them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve. -49- But those 
who reject our Signs, them shall punishment touch, for that they ceased not from transgressing. 
-50- Say: I tell you not that with me are the treasures of Allah, nor do I know what is hidden, nor 
do I tell you I am an angel. I but follow what is revealed to me. Say: can the blind be help equal 
to the seeing? will ye then consider not? -51- Give this warning to those in whose (hearts) is the 
fear that they will be brought (to judgment) before their Lord: except for him they will have no 
protector nor intercessor: that they may guard (against evil). -52- Send not away those who call 
on their Lord morning and evening, seeking his face. In naught art thou accountable for them, 
and in naught are they accountable for thee, that thou shouldst turn them away, and thus be 
(one) of the unjust. -53- Thus did we try some of them by comparison with others, that they 
should say: is it these then that Allah hath favored from amongst us? doth not Allah know best 
those who are grateful? -54- When those come to thee who believe in our Signs, say: peace be 
on you: your Lord hath inscribed for Himself (the rule of) mercy: verily, if any of you did evil in 
ignorance, and thereafter repented, and amended (his conduct), lo he is Oft-Forgiving, Most 
Merciful. -55- Thus do we explain the Signs in detail: that the way of the sinners may be shown 
up.  
45  
-56- Say: I am forbidden to worship those others than Allah whom ye call upon. Say: I will not 
follow your vain desires: if I did, I would stray from the path, and be not of the company of those 
who receive guidance. -57- Say: for me, I (work) on a clear sign from my Lord, but ye reject him. 
What ye would see hastened, is not in my power. The command rests with none but Allah: he 
declares the truth, and he is the best of judges. -58- Say: if what ye would see hastened were in 
my power, the matter would be settled at once between you and me. But Allah knoweth best 
those who do wrong. -59- With him are the keys of the unseen, the treasures that none knoweth 
but he. He knoweth whatever there is on the earth and in the sea. Not a leaf doth fall but with 
his knowledge: there is not a grain in the darkness (or depths) of the earth, nor anything fresh or 
dry (green or withered), but is (inscribed) in a record clear (to those who can read). -60- It is He 
Who doth take your souls by night, and hath knowledge of all that ye have done by day: by day 
doth he raise you up again; that a term appointed be fulfilled; in the end unto him will be your 
return; then will he show you the truth of all that ye did. -61- He is the irresistible, (watching) 
from above over his worshippers, and he sets guardians over you. At length, when death 