and themselves they keep away; but they only destroy their own souls, and they perceive it not. 
-27- If thou couldst but see when they are confronted with the fire they will say: would that we 
were but sent back then would we not reject the Signs of our Lord, but would be amongst those 
who believe! -28- Yea, in their own (eyes) will become manifest what before they concealed. But 
if they were returned, they would certainly relapse to the things they were forbidden, for they are 
indeed liars. -29- And they (sometimes) say: there is nothing except our life on this earth, and 
never shall we be raised up again. -30- If thou couldst but see when they are confronted with 
their Lord he will say: is not this the truth? they will say: yea, by our Lord he will say: taste ye 
then the penalty, because ye rejected Faith. -31- Lost indeed are they who treat it as a 
falsehood that they must meet Allah, until on a sudden the hour is on them, and they say: ah 
woe unto us that we took no thought of it; for they bear their burdens on their backs, and evil 
indeed are the burdens that they bear? -32- What is the life of this world but play and 
amusement? but best is the home in the Hereafter, for those who are righteous. Will ye not then 
understand? -33- We know indeed the grief which their words do cause thee: it is not thee they 
reject: it is the Signs of Allah, which the wicked contemn.  
44  
-34- Rejected were the Messengers before thee: with patience and constancy they bore their 
rejection and their wrongs, until Our aid did reach them: there is none that can alter the Words 
(and decrees) of Allah. Already hast thou received some account of those Messengers. -35- If 
their spurning is hard on thy mind, yet if thou wert able to seek a tunnel in the ground or a ladder 
to the skies and bring them a sign, (what good?). If it were Allah's will, he could gather them 
together unto true guidance: so be not thou amongst those who are swayed by ignorance (and 
impatience)! -36- Those who listen (in truth), be sure, will accept: as to the dead, Allah will raise 
them up; then will they be turned unto him. -37- They say: why is not a sign sent down to him 
from his Lord? say: Allah hath certainly power to send down a sign: but most of them 
understand not. -38- There is not an animal (that lives) on the earth, nor a being that flies on its 
wings, but (forms part of) communities like you. Nothing have we omitted from the book, and 
they (all) shall be gathered to their Lord in the end. -39- Those who reject our Signs are deaf 
and dumb, in the midst of darkness profound: whom Allah willeth, he leaveth to wander: whom 
he willeth, he placeth on the way that is straight. -40- Say: think ye to yourselves, if there come 
upon you the wrath of Allah, or the hour (that ye dread), would ye then call upon other than 
Allah? (reply) if ye are truthful -41- Nay, on him would ye call, and if it be his will, he would 
remove (the distress) which occasioned your call upon him, and ye would forget (the false gods) 
which ye join with him -42- Before thee we sent (Messengers) to many nations, and we afflicted 
the nations with suffering and adversity, that they might learn humility. -43- When the suffering 
reached them from us, why then did they not learn humility? on the contrary their hearts become 
hardened, and Satan made their (sinful) acts seem alluring to them. -44- But when they forgot 
the warning they had received, we opened to them the gates of all (good) things, until, in the 