compensation to the deceased's family, unless they remit it freely. If the deceased belonged to a 
people at war with you, and he was a Believer, the freeing of a believing slave (is enough). If he 
belonged to a people with whom ye have a treaty of mutual alliance, compensation should be 
paid to his family, and a  
31  
believing slave be freed. For those who find this beyond their means, (is prescribed) a fast for 
two months running: by way of repentance to Allah: for Allah hath all knowledge and all wisdom. 
-93- If a man kills a Believer intentionally, his recompense is Hell, to abide therein (forever): and 
the wrath and the curse of Allah are upon him, and a dreadful penalty is prepared for him. -94- 
O ye who believe when ye go abroad in the cause of Allah, investigate carefully, and say not to 
any one who offers you a salutation: thou art none of a Believer coveting the perishable goods 
of this life: with Allah are profits and spoils abundant. Even thus were ye yourselves before, till 
Allah conferred on you his favours: therefore carefully investigate. For Allah is well aware of all 
that ye do. -95- Not equal are those Believers who sit (at home) and receive no hurt, and those 
who strive and fight in the cause of Allah with their goods and their persons. Allah hath granted 
a grade higher to those who strive and fight with their goods and persons than to those who sit 
(at home). Unto all (in Faith) hath Allah promised good: but those who strive and fight hath he 
distinguished above those who sit (at home) by a special reward, -96- Ranks specially bestowed 
by him and forgiveness and mercy. For Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -97- When angels 
take the souls of those who die in sin against their souls, they say: in what (plight) were ye? they 
reply: weak and oppressed were we in the earth. They say: was not the earth of Allah spacious 
enough for you to move yourselves away (from evil)? such men will find their abode in Hell, 
what an evil refuge -98- Except those who are (really) weak and oppressed men, women, and 
children who have no means in their power nor (a guide post) to direct their way. -99- For these, 
there is hope that Allah will forgive: for Allah doth blot out (sins) and forgive again and again. 
-100- He who forsakes his home in the cause of Allah, finds in the earth many a refuge, wide 
and spacious: should he die as a refugee from home for Allah and His Messenger, his reward 
becomes due and sure with Allah: and Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -101- When ye 
travel through the earth, there is no blame on you if ye shorten your prayers, for fear the 
Unbelievers may attack you: for the Unbelievers are unto you open enemies. -102- When thou 
(O Messenger) art with them, and standest to lead them in prayer, let one party of them stand 
up (in prayer) with thee, taking their arms with them; when they finish their prostrations, let them 
take their position in the rear. And let the other party come up which hath not yet prayed - and 
let them pray with thee, taking all precautions, and bearing arms: the Unbelievers wish, if ye 
were negligent of your arms and your baggage, to assault you in a single rush. But there is no 
blame on you if ye put away your arms because of the inconvenience of rain or because ye are 
ill; but take (every) precaution for yourselves. For the Unbelievers Allah hath prepared a 
humiliating punishment. -103- When ye pass (congregational) Prayers, celebrate Allah's 