35  
-172- Christ disdaineth not to serve and worship Allah, nor do the angels, those nearest (to 
Allah): those who disdain his worship and are arrogant, he will gather them all together unto 
Himself to (answer). -173- But to those who believe and do deeds of righteousness, he will give 
their (due) rewards, and more, out of his Bounty: but those who are disdainful and arrogant, he 
will punish with a grievous penalty; nor will they find, besides Allah, any to protect or help them. 
-174- O mankind verily there hath come to you a convincing proof from your Lord: for we have 
sent unto you a light (that is) manifest. -175- Then those who believe in Allah, and hold fast to 
him, soon will he admit them to mercy and Grace from Himself, and guide them to Himself by a 
straight way. -176- They ask thee for a legal decision. Say: Allah directs (thus) about those who 
leave no descendants or ascendants as heirs. If it is a man that dies, leaving a sister but no 
child, she shall have half the inheritance: if (such a deceased was) a woman, who left no child, 
her brother takes her inheritance: if there are two sisters, they shall have two thirds of the 
inheritance (between them): if there are brothers and sisters, (they share), the male having 
twice the share of the female. Thus doth Allah make clear to you (his law), lest ye err. And Allah 
hath knowledge of all things.  
SURAH 5: AL MA IDAH (The Repast). -1- O ye who believe fulfil (all) obligations, Lawful unto 
​
you (for food) are all four footed animals, with the exceptions named: but animals of the chase 
are forbidden while ye are in the sacred precincts or in pilgrim garb: for Allah doth command, 
according to His Will and Plan. -2- O ye who believe violate not the sanctity of the symbols of 
Allah, nor of the sacred month, nor of the animals brought for sacrifice, nor the garlands that 
mark out such animals, nor the people resorting to the sacred house, seeking of the Bounty and 
good pleasure of their Lord. But when ye are clear of the sacred precincts and of pilgrim garb, 
ye may hunt and let not the hatred of some people on (once) shutting you out of the sacred 
mosque lead you to transgression (and hostility on your part). Help ye one another in 
righteousness and piety, but help ye not one another in sin and rancour: fear Allah: for Allah is 
strict in punishment. -3- Forbidden to you (your food) are: dead meat, blood, the flesh of swine, 
and that on wish hath been invoked the name of other than Allah; that which hath been killed by 
strangling, or by a violent blow, or by a headlong fall, or by being gored to death; than which 
hath been (partly) eaten by a wild animal; unless ye are able to slaughter it (in due form); that 
which is sacrificed on stone (altars); (forbidden) also is the division (of meat) by raffling with 
arrows: that is impiety. This day have those who reject Faith given up all hope of your religion: 
yet fear them not but fear me. This day have I perfected your religion for you, completed my 
favour upon you, and have chosen for you Islam as your religion. But if any is forced by hunger, 