in Allah, behold Allah is exalted in might, wise. -50- If thou couldst see, when the angels take 
the souls of the Unbelievers (at death), (how) they smite their faces and their backs, (saying): 
taste the penalty of the blazing fire -51- Because of (the deeds) which your (own) hands sent 
forth: for Allah is never unjust to his servants:  
63  
-52- (Deeds) after the manner of the people of pharaoh and of those before them: they rejected 
the Signs of Allah, and Allah punished them for their crimes: for Allah is strong, and strict in 
punishment: -53- Because Allah will never change the Grace which he hath bestowed on a 
people until they change what is in their (own) souls: and verily Allah is He Who heareth and 
knoweth (all thing). -54- (Deeds) after the manner of the people of Pharaoh and those before 
them: they treated as false the Signs of their Lord: so we destroyed them for their crimes, and 
we drowned the people of Pharaoh: for they were all oppressors and wrongdoers. -55- For the 
worst of beasts in the sight of Allah are those who reject him: they will not believe. -56- They are 
those with whom thou didst make a Covenant, but they break their Covenant every time, and 
they have not the fear (of Allah). -57- If ye gain the mastery over them in war, disperse, with 
them, those who follow them, that they may remember. -58- If thou fearest treachery from any 
group, throw back (their Covenant) to them, (so as to be) on equal terms: for Allah loveth not the 
treacherous. -59- Let not the Unbelievers think that they can get the better (of the godly): they 
will never frustrate (them). -60- Against the make ready your strength to the utmost of your 
power, including steeds of war, to strike terror into (the hearts of) the enemies, of Allah and your 
enemies, and others besides, whom ye may not know, but whom Allah doth know. Whatever ye 
shall spend in the cause of Allah, shall be repaid unto you, and ye shall not be treated unjustly. 
-61- But if the enemy incline towards peace, do thou (also) incline towards peace, and trust in 
Allah: for he is the one that heareth and knoweth (all things). -62- Should they intend to deceive 
thee, verily Allah sufficeth thee: he it is that hath strengthened thee with his aid and with (the 
company of) the Believers; -63- And (moreover) he hath put affection between their hearts: not if 
thou hadst spent all that is in the earth, couldst thou have produced that affection, but Allah hath 
done it: for he is exalted in might, wise. -64- O Prophet! Sufficient unto thee is Allah- (unto thee) 
and unto those who follow thee among the Believers. -65- O Prophet! rouse the Believers to the 
fight. If there are twenty amongst you, patient and persevering, they will vanquish two hundred: 
if a hundred, they will vanquish a thousand of the Unbelievers: for these are a people without 
understanding. -66- For the present, Allah hath lightened your (task), for He knoweth that there 
is a weak spot in you: but (even. So), if there are a hundred of you, patient and persevering, 
they will vanquish two hundred, and if a thousand, they will vanquish two thousand, with the 
leave of Allah: for Allah is with those who patiently persevere. -67- It is not fitting for a Prophet 
that he should have prisoners of war until he hath thoroughly subdued the land. Ye look for the 
temporal goods of this world; but Allah looketh to the Hereafter: and Allah is Exalted in might, 