any of you is ill, or on a journey, the prescribed number (should be made up) from days later. 
For those who can do it (with hardship), is a ransom, the feeding of one that is indigent. But he 
that will give more, of his own free will, it is better for him. And it is better for you that ye fast, if 
ye only knew. -185- Ramadan is the (month) in which was sent down the Quran as a guide to 
mankind, also clear (Signs) for guidance and judgment (between right and wrong). So every one 
of you who is present (at his home) during that month should spend it in fasting, but if any one is 
ill, or on a journey, the prescribed period (should be made up) by days later. Allah intends every 
facility for you; He does not want to put you to difficulties. (He wants you) to complete the 
prescribed period, and to glorify Him in that He has guided you; and perchance ye shall be 
grateful. -186- When my servants ask thee concerning Me, I am indeed close (to them): I listen 
to the prayer of every suppliant when he calleth on Me: let them also, with a will, listen to My 
call, and believe in Me: that they may walk in the right way. -187- Permitted to you, on the night 
of the fasts, is the approach to your wives. They are your garments and ye are their garments. 
Allah knoweth what ye used to do secretly among yourselves; but he turned to you and forgave 
you; so now associate with them, and seek what Allah hath ordained for you, and eat and drink, 
until the white thread of dawn appear to you distinct from its black thread; then complete your 
fast till the night appears; but do not associate with your wives while ye are in retreat in the 
mosques. Those are limits (set by) Allah: approach not nigh thereto. Thus doth Allah make clear 
his Signs to men: that they may learn self-restraint. -188- And do not eat up your property 
among yourselves for vanities, nor use it as bait for the judges, with intent that ye may eat up 
wrongfully and knowingly a little of (other) people's property. -189- They ask thee concerning the 
new moons. Say: They are but Signs to mark fixed periods of time in (the affairs of) men, and 
for pilgrimage. It is no virtue if ye enter your houses from the back: it is virtue if ye fear Allah. 
Enter houses through the proper doors: and fear Allah: that ye may prosper. -190- Fight in the 
cause of Allah those who fight you, but do not transgress limits; for Allah loveth not 
transgressors. -191- And slay them wherever ye catch them, and turn them out from where they 
have turned you out; for tumult and oppression are worse than slaughter; but fight them not at 
the Sacred Mosque, unless they (first) fight you there; but if they fight you, slay them. Such is 
the reward of those who suppress faith. -192- But if they cease, Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most 
Merciful. -193- And fight them on until there is no more tumult or oppression, and there prevail 
justice and Faith in Allah; but if they cease, let there be no hostility except to those who practise 
oppression. -194- The prohibited month - for the prohibited month, and so for all things 
prohibited, there is the law of equality. If then any one transgresses the prohibition against you, 
transgress ye likewise against him. But fear Allah, and know that Allah is with those who restrain 
themselves. -195- And spend of your substance in the cause of Allah, and make not your own 
hands contribute to (your) destruction; but do good; for Allah loveth those who do good.  
10  
-196- And complete the Hajj or Umrah in the service of Allah, but if ye are prevented (from 