and more proper; but Allah hath cursed them for their unbelief; and but few of them will believe. 
-47- Ye People of the Book believe in what we have (now) revealed, confirming what was 
(already) with you, before we change the face and fame of some (of you) beyond all recognition, 
and turn them hindwards, or curse them as we cursed the Sabbath breakers, for the decision of 
Allah must be carried out. -48- Allah forgiveth not that partners should be set up with him; but he 
forgiveth anything else, to whom he pleaseth; to set up partners with Allah is to devise a sin 
most heinous indeed. -49- Last thou not turned thy vision to those who claim sanctity for 
themselves? nay but Allah doth sanctify whom he pleaseth. But never will they fail to receive 
justice in the least little thing. -50- Behold how they invent a lie against Allah but that by itself is 
a manifest sin! -51- Last thou not turned thy vision to those who were given a portion of the 
book? they believe in sorcery and evil, and say to the Unbelievers that they are better guided in 
the (right) way than the Believers! -52- They are (men) whom Allah had cursed: and those 
whom Allah hath cursed, thou wilt find, have no one to help. -53- Have they a share in dominion 
or power? behold, they give not a farthing to their fellow men? -54- Or do they envy mankind for 
what Allah hath given them of his Bounty? but we had already given the people of Abraham the 
book and wisdom, and conferred upon them a great kingdom. -55- Some of them believed and 
some of them averted their faces from him: and enough is Hell for a burning fire. -56- Those 
who reject our Signs, we shall soon cast into the fire: as often as their skins are roasted through, 
we shall change them for fresh skins, that they may taste the penalty: for Allah is exalted in 
power, wise.  
29  
-57- But those who believe and do deeds of righteousness, we shall soon admit to Gardens, 
with rivers flowing beneath- their eternal home: therein shall they have companions pure and 
holy: we shall admit them to shades, cool and ever deepening. -58- Allah doth command you to 
render back your trusts to those to whom they are due; and when ye judge between man and 
man, that ye judge with justice: verily how excellent is the teaching which he giveth you for Allah 
is He Who heareth and seeth all things. -59- O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the 
Messenger, and those charged with authority among you. If ye differ in anything among 
yourselves, refer it to Allah and His Messenger, if ye do believe in Allah and the Last Day: that is 
best, and most suitable for final determination. -60- Fast thou not turned thy vision to those who 
declare that they believe in the revelations that have come to thee and to those before thee? 
their (real) wish is to resort together for judgment (in their disputes) to the evil one, though they 
were ordered to reject him but Satan's wish is to lead them astray far away (from the right). -61- 
When it is said to them: "Come to what Allah hath revealed, and to the Messenger": thou seest 
the Hypocrites avert their faces from thee in disgust. -62- How then, when they are sized by 
misfortune, because of the deeds which their hands have sent forth? then they come to thee, 