ignorant. -200- If a suggestion from Satan Assail thy (mind), seek refuge with Allah; for He 
heareth and knoweth (all things). -201- Those who fear Allah, when a thought of evil from Satan 
assaults them, bring Allah to remembrance, when lo they see (aright) -202- But their brethren 
(the evil once) plunge them deeper into error, and never relax (their efforts). -203- If thou bring 
them not a revelation, they say: why hast thou not go it together? say: I but follow what is 
revealed to me from my Lord: this is (nothing but) lights from your Lord, and guidance, and 
mercy, for any who have Faith. -204- When the Quran is read, listen to it with attention, and hold 
your peace: that ye may receive mercy. -205- And do thou (O reader) bring thy Lord to 
remembrance in thy (very) soul, with humility and in reverence, without loudness in words, in the 
mornings and evenings; and be not thou of those who are unheedful. -206- Those who are near 
to thy Lord, disdain not to do him worship: they celebrate his praises, and bow down before him.  
SURAH 8: AL ANFAL (The Spoils of War). -1- They ask thee concerning (things taken as) 
​
spoils of war. Say: "(Such) spoils are at the disposal of Allah and the Messenger: so fear Allah, 
and keep straight the relations between yourselves: Obey Allah and His Messenger, if ye do 
believe." -2- For, Believers are those who, when Allah is mentioned, feel a tremor in their hearts, 
and when they hear His Signs rehearsed, find their faith strengthened, and put (all) their trust in 
their Lord; -3- Who establish regular prayers and spend (freely) out of the gifts We have given 
them for sustenance: -4- Such in truth are the Believers: they have grades of dignity with their 
Lord, and forgiveness, and generous sustenance: -5- Just as thy Lord ordered thee out of thy 
house in truth, even though a party among the Believers disliked it, -6- Disputing with thee 
concerning the truth after it was made manifest, as if they were being driven to death and they 
(actually) saw it. -7- Behold Allah promised you one of the tow (enemy) parties, that is should be 
yours: ye wished that the one unarmed should be yours, but Allah willed to justify the truth 
according to his words, and to cut off the roots of the Unbelievers; -8- That He might justify truth 
and prove falsehood false, distasteful though it be to those in guilt.  
61  
-9- Remember ye implored the assistance of Lord, and He answered you: I will assist you with a 
thousand of the angels, ranks on ranks. -10- Allah made it but a message of hope, and an 
assurance to your hearts: (in any case) there is no help except from Allah: and Allah is exalted 
in power, wise. -11- Remember He covered you with a sort of drowsiness, to give you calm as 
from Himself, and He caused rain to descend on you from heaven, to clean you therewith, to 
remove from you the stain of Satan, to strengthen your hearts, and to plant your feet firmly 
therewith. -12- Remember thy Lord inspired the angels (with the message): "I am with you: give 
firmness to the Believers: I will instil terror into the hearts of the Unbelievers: smite ye above 
their necks and smite all their finger tips off them." -13- This because they contended against 