the great works and fine buildings which Pharaoh and his people erected (with such pride). 
-138- We took the Children of Israel (with safety) across the sea. They came upon a people 
devoted entirely to some idols they had. They said: O Moses fashion for us a god like unto the 
gods they have. He said: surely ye are a people without knowledge. -139- As to these folk, the 
cult they are in is (but) a fragment of a ruin, and vain is the (worship) which they practise. -140- 
He said: Shall I seek for you a Allah other than the (true) Allah, when it is Allah who hath 
endowed you with gifts above the nations? -141- And remember we rescued you from 
Pharaoh's people, who afflicted you with the worst of penalties, who slew your male children 
and saved alive your females: in that was a momentous trial from your Lord. -142- We 
appointed for Moses thirty nights, and completed (the period) with ten (more): thus was 
completed the term (of communion) with his Lord, forty nights. And Moses had charged his 
brother Aaron (before he went up): act for me amongst my people: do right, and follow not the 
way of those who do mischief. -143- When Moses came to the place appointed by us, and his 
Lord addressed him, he said: O my Lord show (thyself) to me, that I may look upon thee. Allah 
said. By no means canst thou see me (direct); but look upon the mount; if it abide in its place, 
then shalt thou see me. When his Lord manifested his glory on the mount, He made it as dust, 
and Moses fell down in a swoon. When he recovered his senses he said: Glory be to thee to 
thee I turn in repentance, and I am the first to believe. -144- (Allah) said: O Moses I have 
chosen thee above (other) men, by the mission I (have given thee) and the words I (have 
spoken to thee): take then the (revelation) which I give thee, and be of those who give thanks. 
-145- And we ordained laws for him in the tablets in all matters, both commanding and 
explaining all things, (and said): take and hold these with firmness, and enjoin thy people to hold 
fast by the best in the precepts: soon shall I show you the homes of the wicked, (how they lie 
desolate). -146- Those who behave arrogantly on the earth in defiance of right them will I turn 
away from my Signs: even if they see all the Signs, they will not believe in them; and if they see 
the way of right conduct, they will not adopt it as the way; but if they see the way of error, that is 
the way they will adopt. For they have rejected our Signs, and failed to take warning from them. 
-147- Those who reject our Signs and the meeting in the Hereafter, vain are their deeds: can 
they expect to be rewarded except as they have wrought? -148- The people of Moses made, in 
his absence, out of their ornaments, the image of a calf, (for worship): it seemed to low: did they 
not see that it could neither speak to them, nor show them the way? they took it for worship and 
they did wrong. -149- When they repented, and saw that they had erred, they said: if our Lord 
have not mercy upon us and forgive us, we shall indeed be of those who perish. -150- When 
Moses came back to his people, angry and grieved, he said: evil it is that ye have done in my 
place in my absence: did ye make haste to bring on the judgment of your Lord? he put down the 
tablets, seized his brother by (the hair of) his head, and dragged him to him. Aaron said: son of 
my mother the people did indeed reckon me as naught, and went near to slaying me make not 
the enemies rejoice over my misfortune, nor count thou me amongst the people of sin. -151- 
Moses prayed: O my Lord forgive me and my brother admit us to thy mercy for thou art the Most 