with those who disobey. -97- The Arabs of desert are the worst in unbelief and hypocrisy, and 
most fitted to be in ignorance of the command which Allah hath sent down to His Messenger but 
Allah is All-Knowing, All-Wise. -98- Some of the desert Arabs Look upon their payments as a 
fine, and watch for disasters for you: on them be d disaster of evil: for Allah is he that hearth and 
knoweth (all things). -99- But some of the desert Arabs believe in Allah and the Last Day, and 
look on their payments as pious gifts bringing them nearer to Allah and obtaining the prayers of 
the Messenger. Aye, indeed they bring them nearer (to Him): soon will Allah admit them to His 
Mercy: for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -100- The vanguard (of Islam)- the first of those 
who forsook (their homes) and of those who gave them aid, and (also) those who follow them in 
(all) good deeds-well-pleased is Allah with them, as are they with Him: for them hath He 
prepared Gardens under which rivers flow, to dwell therein forever: that is the supreme felicity. 
-101- Certain of the desert Arabs round about you are Hypocrites, as well as (desert Arabs) 
among the Medina folk: they are obstinate in hypocrisy: thou knowest them not: we know them: 
twice shall we punish them: and in addition shall they be sent to a grievous penalty. -102- 
Others (there are who) have acknowledged their wrong doings: they have mixed an act that was 
good with another that was evil. Perhaps Allah will turn unto them (in mercy): for Allah is Oft- 
Forgiving Most Merciful. -103- Of their goods take alms, that so thou mightest purify and sanctify 
them; and pray on their behalf. Verily thy Prayers are a source of security for them: and Allah is 
one who heareth and knoweth. -104- How they not that Allah doth accept repentance from his 
votaries and receives their gifts of Charity, and that Allah is verily He, the Oft-Returning, Most 
Merciful? -105- And say: "Work (righteousness): soon will Allah observe your work, and His 
Messenger, and the Believers: soon will ye be brought back to the Knower of what is hidden 
and what is open: then will He show you the truth of all that ye did." -106- There are (yet) others, 
held in suspense for the command of Allah, whether He will punish them, or turn in mercy to 
them: and Allah is All-Knowing, Wise. -107- And there are those who put up a mosque by way 
of mischief and infidelity- to disunite the Believers- and in preparation for one who warred 
against Allah and His Messenger aforetime. They  
70  
will indeed swear that their intention is nothing but good; but Allah doth declare that they are 
certainly liars. -108- Never stand thou forth therein. There is a mosque whose foundation was 
laid from the first day on piety; it is more worthy of thy standing forth (for prayer) therein. In it are 
men who love to be purified; and Allah loveth those who make themselves pure. -109- Which 
then is best? he that layeth his foundation on piety to Allah and his good pleasure? or he that 
layeth his foundation on an undermined sand cliff ready to crumble to pieces? and it doth 
crumble to pieces with him, into the fire of Hell. And Allah guideth not people to that do wrong. 
-110- The foundation of those who so build is never free from suspicion and shakiness in their 
hearts, until their hearts are cut to pieces. And Allah is All-Knowing, wise. -111- Allah hath 
purchased of the Believers their persons and their goods; for their (in return) is the Garden (of 