behold! thou bringest forth the dead by My leave. And behold! I did restrain the Children of 
Israel from (violence to) thee when thou didst show them the Clear Signs. And the Unbelievers 
among them said: 'This is nothing but evident magic.' -111- "And behold! I inspired the Disciples 
to have Faith in Me and Mine Messenger; they said, 'We have Faith, and do thou bear witness 
that we bow to Allah as Muslims'." -112- Behold! the disciples said: "O Jesus the son of Mary! 
can thy Lord send down to us a Table set (with viands) from heaven?" Said Jesus: "Fear Allah, 
if ye have Faith." -113- They said: "We only wish to eat thereof and satisfy our hearts, and to 
know that thou hast indeed told us the truth; and that we ourselves may be witnesses to the 
miracle." -114- Said Jesus the son of Mary: "O Allah our Lord! send us from heaven a table set 
(with viands), that there may be for us- for the first and the last of us- a solemn festival and a 
Sign from Thee; and provide for our sustenance, for Thou art the best Sustainer (of our needs)." 
-115- Allah said: "I will send it down unto you; but if any of you after that resisteth faith, I will 
punish him with a penalty such as I have not inflicted on any one among all the peoples." -116- 
And behold! Allah will say: "O Jesus the son of Mary! didst thou say unto men, "Worship me and 
my mother as gods in derogation of Allah?" He will say: "Glory to Thee! never could I say what I 
had no right (to say). Had I said such a thing, Thou wouldst indeed have known it. Thou 
knowest what is in my heart, though I know not what is in Thine. For Thou knowest in full all that 
is hidden. -117- "Never said I to them aught except what Thou didst command me to say, to wit, 
'Worship Allah, my Lord and your Lord'; and I was a witness over them whilst I dwelt amongst 
them; when Thou didst take me up Thou wast the watcher over them, and Thou art a witness to 
all things. -118- "If Thou dost punish them, they are Thy servants: if Thou dost forgive them, 
Thou are the Exalted in power, the Wise." -119- Allah will say: "This is a day on which the 
truthful will profit from their truth: theirs are Gardens, with rivers flowing beneath- their eternal 
home: Allah well-pleased with them, and they with Allah: that is the great Salvation, (the 
fulfillment of all desires). -120- To Allah doth belong the dominion of the heavens and the earth, 
and all that is therein, and it is He who hath power over all things.  
SURAH 6: AL ANCAM (The Cattle). -1- Praise be to Allah, who created the heavens and the 
​
earth, and made the darkness and the light. Yet those who reject Faith hold (others) as equal 
with their guardian Lord. -2- He it who created you from clay, and then decreed a stated term 
(for you). And there is in his presence another determined term; yet ye doubt within yourselves 
-3- And he is Allah in the heavens and one earth. He knoweth what ye hide, and what ye reveal, 
and he knoweth the (recompense) which ye earn (by your deeds). -4- But never did a single one 
of the Signs of their Lord reach them, but they turned away therefrom. -5- And now they reject 
the truth when it reaches them: but soon shall they learn the reality of what they used to mock 
at. -6- See they not who many of those before them we did destroy? generations we had 
established on the earth, in strength such as we have not given to you for whom we poured out 
rain from the skies in abundance, and gave (fertile) streams flowing beneath their (feet): yet for 