Allah, which he will bestow on whom he pleaseth. And Allah encompasseth all, and he knoweth 
all things. -55- Your (real) friends are (no less than) Allah, His Messenger, and the (Fellowship 
of) Believers- those who establish regular prayers and regular charity, and they bow down 
humbly (in worship). -56- As to those who turn (for friendship) to Allah, His Messenger, and the 
(Fellowship of) Believers- it is the Fellowship of Allah that must certainly triumph.  
39  
-57- O ye who believe! take not for friends and protectors those who take your religion for a 
mockery or sport- whether among those who received the Scripture before you, or among those 
who reject Faith; but fear ye Allah, if ye have Faith (indeed). -58- When ye proclaim your call to 
prayer, they take it (but) as mockery and sport; that is because they are a people without 
understanding. -59- Say: O People of the Book do ye disapprove of us for no other reason than 
that we believe in Allah, and the revelation that hath come to us and that which came before 
(us), and (perhaps) that most of you are rebellious and disobedient? -60- Say: shall I point out to 
you something much worse than this, (as judged) by the treatment it received from Allah? those 
who incurred the curse of Allah and his wrath, those of whom some he transformed into apes 
and swine, those who worshipped evil; these are (many times) worse in rank, and far more 
astray from the even path -61- When they come to thee, they say: we believe: but in fact they 
enter with a mind against Faith, and they go out with the same. But Allah knoweth fully all that 
they hide. -62- Many of them dost thou see, racing each other in sin and rancour, and their 
eating of things forbidden. Evil indeed are the things that they do. -63- Why do not the rabbis 
and the doctors of law forbid them from their (habit of) uttering sinful words and eating things 
forbidden? evil indeed are their works. -64- The Jews say: Allah's hand is tied up. Be their 
hands tied up and be they accursed for the (blasphemy) they utter nay, both his hands are 
widely outstretched: he giveth and spendeth (of his Bounty) as he pleaseth but the revelation 
that cometh to thee from Allah increaseth in most of them their obstinate rebellion and 
blasphemy. Amongst them we have placed enmity. And hatred till the day of judgment. Every 
time they kindle the fire of war, Allah doth extinguish it; but they (ever) strive to do mischief on 
earth. And Allah loveth not those who do mischief. -65- If only the People of the Book had 
believed and been righteous, we should indeed have blotted out their iniquities and admitted 
them to Gardens of bliss. -66- If only they have stood fast by the law, the gospel, and all the 
revelation that was sent to them from their Lord, they would have enjoyed happiness from every 
side. There is from among them a party on the right course: but many of them follow a course 
that is evil. -67- O Messenger! proclaim the (Message) which hath been sent to thee from thy 
Lord. If thou didst not, thou wouldst not have fulfilled and proclaimed His Mission. And Allah will 
defend thee from men (who mean mischief). For Allah guideth not those who reject Faith. -68- 
Say: "O People of the Book! ye have no ground to stand upon unless ye stand fast by the Law, 
the Gospel and all the revelation that has come to you from your Lord." It is the revelation that 
cometh to thee from thy Lord, that increaseth in most of them their obstinate rebellion and 