bringeth the dead to life and showeth you his Signs: perchance ye may understand. -74- 
Thenceforth were your hearts hardened: they became like a rock and even worse in hardness. 
For among rocks there are some from which rivers gush forth; others there are which when split 
asunder send forth water; and others which sink for fear of Allah. And Allah is not unmindful of 
what ye do. -75- Can ye (O ye men of Faith) entertain the hope that they will believe in you? - 
seeing that a party of them heard the word of Allah, and perverted it knowingly after they 
understood it. -76- Behold! when they meet the men of Faith, they say: "We believe:" but when 
they meet each other in private, they say: "Shall you tell them what Allah hath revealed to you, 
that they may engage you in argument about it before your Lord?"- do ye not understand (their 
aim)? -77- Know they not that Allah knoweth what they conceal and what they reveal? -78- And 
there are among them illiterates, who know not the Book, but (see therein their own) desires, 
and they do nothing but conjecture. -79- Then woe to those who write the Book with their own 
hands, and then say: "This is from Allah," to traffic with it for a miserable price! - woe to them for 
what their hands do write, and for the gain they make thereby. -80- And they say: "The fire shall 
not touch us but for a few numbered days:" say: "Have ye taken a promise from Allah, for He 
never breaks His promise? Or is it that ye say of Allah what ye do not know?" -81- Nay, those 
who seek gain in evil, and are girt round by their sins - they are companions of the fire: therein 
shall they abide (forever). -82- But those who have Faith and work righteousness. They are 
Companions of the Garden: therein shall they abide (forever).  
4  
-83- And remember We took a Covenant from the Children of Israel (to this effect): worship 
none but Allah; treat with kindness your parents and kindred, and orphans and those in need; 
speak fair to the people; be steadfast in prayer; and practise regular Charity. Then did ye turn 
back, except a few among you, and ye backslide (even now). -84- And remember we took your 
Covenant (to this effect): shed no blood amongst you, nor turn out your own people from your 
homes: and this ye solemnly ratified, and to this ye can bear witness. -85- After this it is ye, the 
same people, who slay among yourselves, and banish a party of you from their homes; assist 
(their enemies) against them, in guilt and rancour; and if they come to you as captives, ye 
ransom them, though it was not lawful for you to banish them. Then is it only a part of the Book 
that ye believe in, and do ye reject the rest? But what is the reward for those among you who 
behave like this but disgrace in this life? - and on the Day of Judgment they shall be consigned 
to the most grievous penalty. For Allah is not unmindful of what ye do. -86- These are the 
people who buy the life of this world at the price of the Hereafter: their penalty shall not be 
lightened nor shall they be helped. -87- We gave Moses the Book and followed him up with a 
succession of Messengers; we gave Jesus, the son of Mary, clear (Signs) and strengthened him 
with the Holy Spirit. Is it that whenever there comes to you a Messenger with what ye 
yourselves desire not, ye are puffed up with pride? Some ye called impostors, and others ye 