only knew. -281- And fear the day when ye shall be brought back to Allah. Then shall every soul 
be paid what it earned, and none shall be dealt with unjustly. -282- O ye who believe! when ye 
deal with each other, in transactions involving future obligations in a fixed period of time, reduce 
them to writing let a scribe write down faithfully as between the parties: let not the scribe refuse 
to write: as Allah h as taught him, so let him write. Let him who incurs the liability dictate, but let 
him fear his Lord Allah, and not diminish aught of what he owes. If the party liable is mentally 
deficient, or weak, or unable himself to dictate, let his guardian dictate faithfully. And get two 
witnesses, out of your own men, and if there are not two men, then a man and two women, such 
as ye choose, for witnesses, so that if one of them errs, the other can remind her. The 
witnesses should not refuse when they are called on (for evidence). Disdain not to reduce to 
writing (your contract) for a future period, whether it be small or big: it is juster in the sight of 
Allah, more suitable as evidence, and more convenient to prevent doubts among yourselves but 
if it be a transaction which ye carry out on the spot among yourselves, there is no blame on you 
if ye reduce it not to writing. But take witnesses whenever ye make a commercial contract; and 
let neither scribe nor witness suffer harm. If ye do (such harm), it would be wickedness in you. 
So fear Allah; for it is Allah that teaches you. And Allah is well acquainted with all things. -283- If 
ye are on a journey, and cannot find a scribe, a pledge with possession (may serve the 
purpose). And if one of you deposits a thing on trust with another, let the trustee (faithfully) 
discharge his trust, and let him fear his Lord. Conceal no t evidence; for whoever conceals it, his 
heart is tainted with sin. And Allah knoweth all that ye do. -284- To Allah belongeth all that is in 
the heavens and on earth. Whether ye show what is in your minds or conceal it, Allah calleth 
you to account for it. He forgiveth whom he pleaseth, and punisheth whom he pleaseth. For 
Allah hath power over all things. -285- The Messenger believeth in what hath been revealed to 
him from his Lord, as do the men of Faith. Each one (of them) believeth in Allah, His angels, His 
books, and His Messengers. "We make no distinction (they say) between one and another of 
His Messengers." And they say: "We hear, and we obey: (we seek) Thy forgiveness, our Lord, 
and to Thee is the end of all journeys."  
16  
-286- On no soul doth Allah place a burden greater than it can bear. It gets every good that it 
earns, and it suffers every ill that it earns. (pray:) our Lord! condemn us not if we forget or fall 
into error; our Lord! lay not on us a burden like that which thou didst lay on those before us; our 
Lord! lay not on us a burden greater than we have strength to bear. Blot out our sins, and grant 
us  forgiveness.  Have  mercy  on  us.  Thou  art  our protector; help us against those who stand 
against Faith.  
SURAH 3: AL CIMRAN (The Family of CImran). -1- Alif Lam Mim -2- Allah there is no god 
​