be a way for them out of the Fire. -168- O ye people! eat of what is on earth, lawful and good; 
and do not follow the footsteps of the Evil One, for he is to you an avowed enemy. -169- For he 
commands you what is evil and shameful, and that ye should say of Allah that of which ye have 
no knowledge. -170- When it is said to them: "Follow what Allah hath revealed:" They say: "Nay! 
we shall follow the ways of our fathers:" What! even though their fathers were void of wisdom 
and guidance? -171- The parable of those who reject Faith is as if one were to shout like a 
goat-herd, to things that listen to nothing but call and cries: deaf, dumb, and blind, they are void 
of wisdom. -172- O ye who believe! eat of the good things that we have provided for you, and be 
grateful to Allah, if it is Him ye worship. -173- He hath only forbidden you dead meat, and blood, 
and the flesh of swine, and that on which any other name hath been invoked besides that of 
Allah. But if one is forced by necessity, without wilful disobedience, nor transgressing due limits 
- then is he guiltless. For Allah is Oft-Forgiving Most Merciful. -174- Those who conceal Allah's 
revelations in the Book, and purchase for them a miserable profit - they swallow into themselves 
naught but Fire; Allah will not address them on the Day of Resurrection, nor purify them: 
grievous will be their Penalty. -175- They are the ones who buy Error in place of Guidance and 
Torment in place of Forgiveness. Ah! what boldness (they show) for the fire! -176- (Their doom 
is) because Allah sent down the Book in truth but those who seek causes of dispute in the Book 
are in a schism far (from the purpose). -177- It is not righteousness that ye turn your faces 
towards East or West; but it is righteousness - to believe in Allah and the Last Day, and the 
Angels, and the Book, and the Messengers; to spend of your substance, out of love for Him, for 
your kin, for orphans, for the needy, for the wayfarer, for those who ask, and for the ransom of 
slaves; to be steadfast in prayer, and practice regular charity; to fulfil the contracts which ye 
have made; and to be firm and patient, in pain (or suffering) and adversity, and throughout all 
periods of panic. Such are the people of truth, the God-fearing. -178- O ye who believe! the law 
of equality is prescribed to you in cases of murder: the free for the free, the slave for the slave, 
the woman for the woman. But if any remission is made by the brother of  
9  
the slain, then grant any reasonable demand, and compensate him with handsome gratitude. 
This is a concession and a mercy from your Lord. After this whoever exceeds the limits shall be 
in grave penalty. -179- In the law of equality there is (saving of) life to you, o ye men of 
understanding; that ye may restrain yourselves. -180- It is prescribed, when death approaches 
any of you, if he leave any goods, that he make a bequest to parents and next of kin, according 
to reasonable usage; this is due from the God-fearing. -181- If anyone changes the bequest 
after hearing it, the guilt shall be on those who make the change. For Allah hears and knows (all 
things). -182- But if anyone fears partiality or wrong doing on the part of the testator, and makes 
peace between (the parties concerned), there is no wrong in him: for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most 
Merciful. -183- O ye who believe! fasting is prescribed to you as it was prescribed to those 
before you, that ye may (learn) self restraint, -184- (Fasting) for a fixed number of days; but if 