the direction of the Sacred Mosque; and wheresoever ye are, turn your face thither: that there 
be no ground of dispute against you among the people, except those of them that are bent on 
wickedness; so fear them not, but fear Me; and that I may complete My favours on you, and ye 
may (consent to) be guided; -151- A similar (favour have ye already received) in that We have 
sent among you a Messenger of your own, rehearsing to you Our Signs; and purifying you, and 
instructing you in Scripture and Wisdom, and in new Knowledge. -152- Then do ye remember 
Me; I will remember you. Be grateful to Me, and reject not Faith. -153- Ye who believe! seek 
help with patient perseverance and prayer: for Allah is with those who patiently persevere. -154- 
And say not of those who are slain in the way of Allah: "They are dead." Nay, they are living, 
though ye perceive (it) not. -155- Be sure We shall test you with something of fear and hunger, 
some loss in goods or lives or the fruits (of your toil), but give glad tidings to those who patiently 
persevere, -156- Who say, when afflicted with calamity: "To Allah we belong, and to Him is our 
return" - -157- They are those in whom (descend) blessings from their Lord and mercy, and they 
are the ones that receive guidance. -158- Behold! Safa and Marwah are among the Symbols of 
Allah. So if those who visit the House in the Season or at other times, should compass them 
round, it is no sin in them. And if any one obeyeth his own impulse to good - be sure that Allah 
is He Who recogniseth and knoweth.  
8  
-159- Those who conceal the clear (Signs) We have sent down, and the Guidance, after We 
have made it clear for the People in the Book - on them shall be Allah's curse, and the curse of 
those entitled to curse - -160- Except those who repent and make amends and openly declare 
(the Truth): to them I turn; for I am Oft-Returning, Most Merciful. -161- Those who reject Faith, 
and die rejecting - on them is Allah's curse, and the curse of angels, and of all mankind; -162- 
They will abide therein: their penalty will not be lightened, nor will respite be their (lot). -163- And 
your God is One God: there is no god but He, Most Gracious, Most Merciful. -164- Behold! in 
the creation of the heavens and the earth; in the alternation of the Night and the Day; in the 
sailing of the ships through the Ocean for the profit of mankind; in the rain which Allah sends 
down from the skies, and the life which He gives therewith to an earth that is dead; in the beasts 
of all kinds that He scatters through the earth; in the change of the winds, and the clouds which 
they trail like their slaves between the sky and the earth - (here) indeed are Signs for a people 
that are wise. -165- Yet there are men who take (for worship) others besides Allah, as equal 
(with Allah): they love them as they should love Allah. But those of Faith are overflowing in their 
love for Allah. If only the unrighteous could see, behold, they would see the Punishment: that to 
Allah belongs all power, and Allah will strongly enforce the Punishment. -166- Then would those 
who are followed clear themselves of those who follow (them): they would see the Penalty, and 
all relations between them would be cut off. -167- And those who followed would say: "If only we 
had one more chance, we would clear ourselves of them, as they have cleared themselves of 
us." Thus will Allah show them (the fruits of) their deeds as (nothing but) regrets. Nor will there 