to them, openly holding up their heads, but on the day they had no Sabbath, they came not: 
thus did we make a trial of them, for they were Given to transgression. -164- When some of 
them said: why do ye preach to a people whom Allah will destroy or visit with a terrible 
punishment? said the preachers: to discharge our duty to your Lord, and perchance they may 
fear him. -165- When they disregarded the warnings that had been given them, we rescued 
those who forbade evil; but we visited the wrongdoers with a grievous punishment, because 
they were given to transgression. -166- When in their insolence they transgressed (all) 
prohibitions, we said to them: be ye apes, despised and rejected. -167- Behold thy Lord did 
declare that He would send against them, to the day of judgment, those who would affect them 
with grievous penalty. Thy Lord is quick in retribution, but He is also Oft- Forgiving, Most 
Merciful. -168- We broke them up into sections on this earth. There are among them some that 
are the righteous, and some that are the opposite. We have tried them with both prosperity and 
adversity: in order that they might turn (to us). -169- After them succeeded an (evil) generation: 
they inherited the book, but they chose (for themselves) the vanities of this world, saying (for 
excuse): (everything) will be forgiven us. (even so), if similar vanities came their way, they would 
(again) seize them. Was not the Covenant of the book  
59  
taken from them, that they would not ascribe to Allah anything but the truth? and they study 
what is in the book. But best for the righteous in the home in the Hereafter. Will ye not 
understand? -170- As to those who hold fast by the book and establish regular prayer, never 
shall we suffer the reward of the righteous to perish. -171- When we shook the mount over 
them, as if it had been a canopy, and they thought it was going to fall on them (we said): hold 
firmly to what we have given you, and bring (ever) to remembrance what is therein; perchance 
ye may fear Allah. -172- When thy Lord drew forth from the children of Adam from their loins 
their descendants, and made them testify concerning themselves, (saying): Am I not your Lord 
(who cherishes and sustains you)? they said: yea we do testify (this), lest ye should say on the 
day of judgment: of this we were never mindful: -173- Or lest ye should say: our fathers before 
us may have taken false gods, but we are (their) descendants after them: wilt thou then destroy 
us because of the deeds of men who were futile? -174- Thus do we explain the Signs in detail; 
and perchance they may turn (unto us). -175- Relate to them the story of the man to whom we 
sent our Signs, but he passed them by: so Satan followed him up, and he went astray. -176- If it 
had been our will, we should have elevated him with our Signs; but he inclined to the earth, and 
followed his own vain desires. His similitude is that of a dog: if you attack him, he lolls out his 
tongue, or if you leave him alone, he (still) lolls out his tongue. That is the similitude of those 
who reject our Signs; so relate the story; perchance they may reflect. -177- Evil as an example 
are people who reject our Signs and wrong their own souls. -178- Whom Allah doth guide, he is 
on the right path: whom He rejects from his guidance, such are the persons who perish. -179- 
Many are the Jinns and men we have made for Hell: they have hearts wherewith they 