righteousness- We shall soon admit them to Gardens, with rivers flowing beneath- to dwell 
therein forever. Allah's promise is the truth, and whose word can be truer than Allah's? -123- 
Dot your desires, nor those of the People of the Book (can prevail): whoever works evil, will be 
requited accordingly. Nor will he find, besides Allah, any protector or helper. -124- If any do 
deeds of righteousness, be they male or female and have Faith, they will enter heaven, and not 
the least injustice will be done to them. -125- Who can be better in religion than one who 
submits his whole self to Allah, does good, and follows the way of Abraham the true in Faith? for 
Allah did take Abraham for a friend. -126- But to Allah belong all things in the heavens and on 
earth: and he it is that encompasseth all things. -127- They ask thy instruction concerning the 
women say: Allah doth instruct you about them: and (remember) what hath been rehearsed 
unto you in the book, concerning the orphans of women to whom ye give not the portions 
prescribed, and yet whom ye desire to marry, as also concerning the children who are weak and 
oppressed: that ye stand firm for justice to orphans there is not a good deed which ye do, but 
Allah is well acquainted therewith. -128- If a wife fears cruelty or desertion on her husband's 
part, there is no blame on them if they arrange an amicable settlement between themselves; 
and such settlement is best; even though men's souls are swayed by greed. But if ye do good 
and practise self restraint, Allah is well acquainted with all that ye do. -129- Ye are never able to 
be fair and just as between women, even if it is your ardent desire: but turn not away (from a 
woman) altogether, so as to leave her (as it were) hanging (in the air). If ye come to a friendly 
understanding, and practise self restraint, Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -130- But if they 
disagree (and must part), Allah will provide abundance for all from his all reaching Bounty: for 
Allah is he that careth for all and is wise.  
33  
-131- To Allah belong all things in the heavens and on earth. Verily we have directed the People 
of the Book before you, and you (O Muslims) to fear Allah. But if ye deny him, lo unto Allah 
belong all things in the heavens and on earth, and Allah is free of all wants, worthy of all praise. 
-132- Yea, unto Allah belong all things in the heavens and on earth, and enough is Allah to carry 
through all affairs. -133- If it were his will, he could destroy you, O mankind, and create another 
race; for he hath power this to do. -134- If any one desires a reward in this life, in Allah's (gift) is 
the reward (both) of this life and of the Hereafter: for Allah is he that heareth and seeth (all 
things). -135- O ye who believe stand out firmly for justice, as witnesses to Allah, even as 
against yourselves, or your parents, or your kin, and whether it be (against) rich or poor: for 
Allah can best protect both. Follow not the lusts (of your hearts), lest ye swerve, and if ye distort 
(justice) or decline to do justice, verily Allah is well acquainted with all that ye do. -136- O ye 
who believe! Believe in Allah and His Messenger, and the scripture which He hath sent to His 
Messenger and the scripture which He sent to those before (him). Any who denieth Allah, His 
angels, His Books, His Messengers, and the Day of Judgement, hath gone far, far astray. -137- 
Those who believe, then reject Faith, then believe (again) and (again) reject Faith, and go on 