dissent therefrom except through envy of each other, after knowledge had come to them. But if 
any deny the Signs of. Allah, Allah is swift in calling to account. -20- So if they dispute with thee, 
say: I have submitted my whole self to Allah and so have those who follow me. And say to the 
People of the Book and to those who are unlearned: do ye (also) submit yourselves? if they do, 
they are in right guidance, but if they turn back, thy duty is to convey the message; and in 
Allah's sight are (all) his servants. -21- As to those who deny the Signs of Allah, and in defiance 
of right, slay the prophets, and slay those who teach just dealing with mankind, announce to 
them a grievous penalty. -22- They are those whose works will bear no fruit in this world and in 
the Hereafter, nor will they have anyone to help. -23- Hast thou not turned thy vision to those 
who have been given a portion of the book? they are invited to the book of Allah, to settle their 
dispute, but a party of them turn back and decline (the arbitration). -24- This because they say: 
the fire shall not touch us but for a few numbered days: for their forgeries deceive them as to 
their own religion. -25- But how (will they fare) when we gather them together against a day 
about which there is no doubt, and each soul will be paid out just what it has earned, without 
(favour or) injustice? -26- Say: "O Allah! Lord of Power (and Rule), Thou givest Power to whom 
Thou pleasest, and Thou strippest off Power from whom Thou pleasest: Thou enduest with 
honour whom Thou pleasest, and Thou bringest low whom Thou pleasest: In Thy hand is all 
Good. Verily, over all things thou hast power. -27- "Thou causest the Night to gain on the day, 
and thou causest the day to gain on the night; thou bringest the living out of the dead, and thou 
bringest the dead out of the living; and thou givest sustenance to whom thou pleasest, without 
measure. -28- Let not the Believers take for friends or helpers Unbelievers rather than 
Believers: if any do that, in nothing will there be help from Allah: except by way of precaution, 
that ye may guard yourselves from them. But Allah cautions you (to remember) himself; for the 
final goal is to Allah. -29- Say: whether ye hide what is in your hearts or reveal it, Allah knows it 
all: he knows what is in the heavens, and what is on earth. And Allah has power over all things. 
-30- On the day when every soul will be confronted with all the good it has done, it will wish 
there where a great distance between it and its evil. But Allah caution you (to remember) 
himself. And Allah is full of kindness to those that serve him. -31- Say: "If ye do love Allah, follow 
me: Allah will love you and forgive you your sins; for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -32- 
Say: "Obey Allah and His Messenger": but if they turn back, Allah loveth not those who reject 
Faith. -33- Allah did choose Adam and Noah, the family of Abraham, and the family of Imran 
above all people, -34- Offspring, one of the other: and Allah heareth and knoweth all things. -35- 
Behold a woman of Imran said: O my Lord I do dedicate unto thee what is in my womb for thy 
special service: so accept this of me: for thou hearest and knowest all things. -36- When she 
was delivered, she said: O my Lord behold I am delivered of a female child and Allah knew best 
what she brought forth and nowise is the male like the female. I have named her Mary, and I 
commend her and her offspring to thy protection from the evil one, the rejected. -37- Right 
graciously did her Lord accept her: he made her grow in purity and beauty: to the care of 
Zakariya was she assigned. Every time that he entered (her) chamber to see her, he found her 