their sins we destroyed them, and raised in their wake fresh generations (to succeed them). -7- 
If we had sent unto thee written (message) on parchment, so that they could touch it with their 
hands, the Unbelievers would have been sure to say: this is nothing but obvious magic -8- They 
say: why is it not an angel sent down to him? if we did send down an angel, the matter would be 
settled at once, and no respite would be granted them. -9- If we had mad it an angel, we should 
have sent him as man, and we should certainly have caused them confusion in a matter which 
they have already covered with confusion. -10- Mocked were (many) Messengers before thee; 
but their scoffers were hemmed in by the thing that they mocked.  
43  
-11- Say: travel through the earth and see what was the end of those who rejected truth -12- 
Say: to whom belongeth all that is in the heavens and on earth? say: to Allah. He hath inscribed 
from Himself (the rule of) mercy. That he will gather you together for the day of judgment, there 
is no doubt whatever, it is they who have lost their own souls, that will not believe. -13- To Him 
belongeth all that dwelleth (or lurketh) in the night and the day. For he is the one who heareth 
and knoweth all things. -14- Say: shall I take for my protector any other than Allah, the maker of 
the heavens and the earth? and He it is that feedeth but is not fed. Say: nay but I am 
commanded to be the first of those who bow to Allah (in Islam), and be not thou of the company 
of those who join gods with Allah. -15- Say: I would, if I disobeyed my Lord, indeed have fear of 
the penalty of a might day. -16- On that day, if the penalty is averted from any, it is due to Allah's 
of mercy; and that would be (salvation), the obvious fulfillment of all desire. -17- If Allah touch 
thee with affection, none can remove it but he; if he touch thee with happiness, he hath power 
over all things. -18- He is the irresistible, (watching) from above over his worshippers; and he is 
the wise, acquainted with all things. -19- Say: what things is most weighty in evidence? say: 
Allah is witness between me and you; this Quran hath been revealed to me by inspiration, that I 
may warn you and all who it reaches. Can you possibly bear witness that besides Allah there is 
another Allah? say: nay I cannot bear witness say: but in truth he is the one Allah, and I truly am 
innocent of (your blasphemy of) joining others with him. -20- Those to whom we have given the 
book know this as they know their own sons. Those who have lost their own souls refuse 
therefore to believe. -21- Who doth more wrong than he who inventeth a lie against Allah or 
rejecteth his Signs? but verily the wrongdoers never shall prosper. -22- One day shall we gather 
them all together: we shall say to those who ascribed partners (to us): where are the partners 
whom ye (invented and) talked about? -23- There will then be (left) no subterfuge for them but 
to say: by Allah our Lord, we were not those who joined gods with Allah. -24- Behold how they 
lie against their own souls but the (lie) which they invented will leave them in the lurch. -25- Of 
them there are some who (pretend to) listen to thee; but we have thrown veils on their hearts, so 
they understand it not, and deafness in their ears; if they saw every one of the Signs, not they 
will believe in them; in so much that when they come to thee, they (but) dispute with thee; the 
Unbelievers say: these are nothing but tales of the ancients. -26- Others they keep away from it, 