will be covered, as it were, with pieces from the depth of the darkness of Night: they are 
Companions of the Fire: they will abide therein (for aye)! -28- One Day shall We gather them all 
together. Then shall We say to those who joined gods (with Us): "To your place! ye and those 
ye joined as 'partners'." We shall separate them, and their "partners" shall say: "It was not us 
that ye worshipped!" -29- Enough is Allah for a witness between us and you: we certainly knew 
nothing of your worship of us! -30- There will every soul prove (the fruits of) the deeds is sent 
before: they will be brought back to Allah their rightful Lord, and their invented falsehoods will 
leave them in the lurch. -31- Say: who is it that Sustains you (in life) from the sky and from the 
earth? or who is it that has power over hearing and sight? and who is it that brings out the living 
from the dead and the dead from the living? and who is it that rules and regulates all affairs? 
they will soon say, Allah. Say will ye not then show piety (to him)? -32- Such is Allah, your real 
Cherisher and Sustainer: apart from truth, what (remains) but error? how then are ye turned 
away? -33- Thus is the word of thy Lord proved true against those who rebel: verily they will not 
believe. -34- Say: of your partners, can any originate creation and repeat it? say: it is Allah who 
originates creation and repeats it: then how are ye deluded away (from the truth)?  
73  
-35- Say: of your partners is there any that can give any guidance towards truth? say: it is Allah 
who gives guidance towards truth. Is then He Who gives guidance to truth more worthy to be 
followed, or he who finds not guidance (himself) unless he is guided? what then is the matter 
with you? how judge ye? -36- But most of them follow nothing but fancy: truly fancy can be of no 
avail against truth. Verily Allah is well aware of all that they do. -37- This Quran is not such as 
can be produced by other than Allah; on the contrary it is a confirmation of (revelations) that 
went before it, and a fuller explanation of the book wherein there is no doubt from the Lord of 
the worlds. -38- Or do they say, he forged it? say: bring then a Surah like unto it, and call (to 
your aid) anyone you can, besides Allah, if it be ye speak the truth! -39- Nay, they charge with 
falsehood that whose knowledge they cannot compass, even before the elucidation thereof hath 
reached them: thus did those before them make charges of falsehood: But see what was the 
end of those who did wrong! -40- Of them there are some who believe therein and some who do 
not: and thy Lord knoweth best those who are out for mischief. -41- If they charge thee with 
falsehood, say: my work to me, and yours to you ye are free from responsibility for what I do, 
and I for what ye do! -42- Among them are some who (pretend to) listen to thee: but canst thou 
make the deaf to hear, even though they are without understanding? -43- And among them are 
some who look at thee: but canst thou guide the blind, even though they will not see? -44- Verily 
Allah will not deal unjustly with man in aught: it is man that wrongs his own soul. -45- One day 
he will gather them together: (it will be) as if they had tarried but an hour of a day: they will 
recognize each other: assuredly those will be lost who denied the meeting with Allah and 
refused to receive true guidance. -46- Whether we show thee (realized in thy life time) some 
part of what we promise them, or we take thy soul (to our mercy) (before that), in any case, to 