transgressors seem fair in their eyes! -13- Generations before you We destroyed when they did 
wrong: their Messengers came to them with Clear Signs, but they would not believe! Thus do 
We requite those who sin! -14- Then we made you heirs in the land after them, to see how ye 
would behave! -15- But when our Clear Signs are rehearsed unto them, those who rest not their 
hope on their meeting with Us, say: bring us reading other than this, or change this, say: it is not 
for me, of my own accord, to change it: I follow Naught but what is revealed unto me: if I were to 
disobey my Lord, I should myself fear the Penalty of a great day (to come).  
72  
-16- Say: If Allah had to willed, I should not have rehearsed it to you, nor would he have made it 
known to you. A whole life time before this have I tarried amongst you: will ye not then 
understand? -17- Who doth more wrong than such as forge a lie against Allah, or deny his 
Signs? but never will prosper those who sin. -18- They serve, besides Allah, things that hurt 
them not nor profit them, and they say: these are our intercessors with Allah. Say: do ye indeed 
inform Allah of something he knows not, in the heavens or on earth? Glory to him and far is he 
above the partners they ascribe (to him) -19- Mankind was but one nation, but differed (later). 
Had it not been for a word that went forth before from thy Lord, their differences between them. 
-20- They say: why is not a Signs sent down to him from his Lord? say: the unseen is only for 
Allah (to know). Then wait ye: I too will wait with you. -21- When we make mankind taste if some 
mercy after adversity hath touched them, behold! they take to plotting against Our Signs! Say: 
"Swifter to plan is Allah!" Verily, our messengers record all the plots that ye make! -22- He is 
Who enableth you to traverse through land and sea; so that ye even board ships; they sail with 
them with a favourable wind, and they rejoice thereat; then comes a stormy wind and the waves 
come to them from all sides, and they think they are being overwhelmed: they cry unto Allah, 
sincerely offering (their) duty unto him, saying, if thou dost deliver us from this, we shall truly 
show our gratitude -23- But when he delivereth them, behold they transgress insolently through 
the earth in defiance of right O mankind your insolence is against your own souls, an enjoyment 
of the life of the present: in the end, to us is your return, and we shall show you the truth of all 
that ye did. -24- The likeness of the life of the present is as the rain which we send down from 
the skies: by its mingling arises the produce of the earth which provides food for men and 
animals: (it grows) till the earth is clad with its golden ornaments and is decked out (in beauty): 
the people to whom it belongs think they have all powers of disposal over it: there reaches it our 
command by night or by day, and we make it like a harvest clean mown, as if it had not 
flourished only the day before thus do we explain the Signs in detail for those who reflect. -25- 
But Allah doth call to the home of peace: he doth guide whom he pleaseth to a way that is 
straight. -26- To those who do right is a goodly (reward)- yea, more (than in measure)! No 
darkness nor shame shall cover their faces! They are Companions of the Garden; they will 
abide therein (for aye)! -27- But those who have earned evil will have a reward of like evil: 
ignominy will cover their (faces): no defender will they have from (the wrath of) Allah: their faces 