52  
-28- When they do aught that is shameful, they say: "We found our fathers doing so"; and "Allah 
commanded us thus;" say: "Nay, Allah never commands what is shameful: do ye say of Allah 
what ye know not?" -29- Say: "My Lord hath commanded Justice; and that ye set your whole 
selves (to Him) at every time and place of prayer, and call upon Him, making your devotion 
sincere as in His sight: Such as He created you in the beginning, so shall ye return." -30- Some 
He hath guided: others have (by their choice) deserved the loss of their way; in that they took 
the Evil once, in preference to Allah, for their friends and protectors, and think that they receive 
guidance. -31- O Children of Adam Wear your beautiful apparel at every time and place of 
prayer: eat and drink: but wast not be excess, for Allah loveth not the wasters. -32- Say: who 
hath forbidden the beautiful (gifts) of Allah, which He hath produced for his servants, and the 
things, clean and pure, (which He hath provided) for sustenance? Say they are, in the life of this 
world, for those who believe, (and) purely for them on the day of judgment thus do we explain 
the Signs in detail for those who understand. -33- Say: the things that my Lord hath indeed 
forbidden are: shameful deeds, whether open or secret; since and trespasses against truth or 
reason; assigning of partners to Allah, for which He hath given no authority; and saying things 
about Allah of which ye have no knowledge. -34- To every people is a term appointed: when 
their term is reached, not an hour can they cause delay, Nor (an hour) can they advance (it in 
anticipation). -35- O ye Children of Adam! whenever there come to you Messengers from 
amongst you, rehearsing My Signs unto you- those who are righteous and mend (their lives)- on 
them shall be no fear nor shall they grieve. -36- But those who reject our Signs and treat them 
with arrogance, they are companions of the fire, to dwell therein (forever). -37- Who is more 
unjust than one who invents a lie against Allah or rejects His Signs? For such, their portion 
appointed must reach them from the Book (of Decrees): until, when our messengers (of death) 
arrive and take their souls, they say: "Where are the things that ye used to invoke besides 
Allah?" They will reply, "They have left us in the lurch," and they will bear witness against 
themselves, that they had rejected Allah. -38- He will say: "Enter ye in the company of the 
peoples who passed away before you- men and Jinns- into the Fire. Every time a new people 
enters, it curses its sister-People (that went before), until they follow each other, all into the Fire. 
Saith the last about the first: "Our Lord! it is these that misled us: so give them a double penalty 
in the Fire." He will say: "Doubled for all": but this ye do not understand. -39- Then the first will 
say to the last: "See then! no advantage have ye over us; so taste ye of the Penalty for all that 
ye did!" -40- To those who reject Our Signs and treat them with arrogance, no opining will there 
be of the gates of heaven, nor will they enter the Garden, until the camel can pass through the 
eye of the needle: such is Our reward for those in sin. -41- For them there is Hell, as a couch 
(below) and folds of covering above: such is our requital of those who do wrong. -42- But those 
who believe and work righteousness- no burden do We place on any soul, but that which it can 
bear- they will be Companions of the Garden, therein to dwell (forever). -43- And we shall 