-127- That he might cut off a fringe of the Unbelievers or expose them to infamy, and they 
should then be turned back, frustrated of their purpose. -128- Not for thee, (but for Allah), is the 
decision: whether he turn is mercy to them, or punish them; for they are indeed wrongdoers. 
-129- To Allah belongeth all that is in the heavens and on earth. He forgiveth whom he pleaseth 
and punisheth whom he pleaseth; but Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -130- O ye who 
believe devour not usury, doubled and multiplied; but fear Allah; that ye may (really) prosper. 
-131- Fear the fire, which is prepared for those who reject Faith: -132- And obey Allah and the 
Messenger; that ye may obtain mercy. -133- Be quick in the race for forgiveness from your Lord, 
and for a Garden whose width is that (of the whole) of the heavens and of earth, prepared for 
the righteous- -134- Those who spend (freely), whether in prosperity, or in adversity; who 
restrain anger, and pardon (all) men; for Allah loves those who do good; -135- And those who, 
having done something to be ashamed of, or wronged their own souls, and ask for forgiveness 
for their sins, and who can forgive sins except Allah? and are never obstinate in persisting 
knowingly in (the wrong) they have done -136- For such the reward is forgiveness from their 
Lord, and Gardens with rivers flowing underneath- an eternal dwelling: how excellent a 
recompense for those who work (and strive)! -137- Many were the ways of life that have passed 
away before you: travel though the earth, and see what was the end of those who rejected 
Truth. -138- Here is plain statement to men, a guidance and instruction to those who fear Allah! 
-139- So lose not heart, nor fall into despair: for ye must gain mastery if ye are true in Faith. 
-140- If a wound hath touched you, be sure a similar wound hath touched the others. Such days 
(of varying fortunes) we give to men and men by turns: that Allah may know those that believe, 
and that he may take to himself from your ranks martyr witnesses (to truth). And Allah loveth not 
those that do wrong. -141- Allah's object also is to purge those that are true in Faith and to 
deprive of blessing those that resist Faith. -142- Did ye think that ye would enter heaven without 
Allah testing those of you who fought hard (in his cause) and remained steadfast? -143- Ye did 
indeed wish for death before ye met him: now ye have seen him with your own eyes, (and ye 
flinch) -144- Muhammad is no more than a Messenger: many were the Messengers that passed 
away before him. If he died or were slain, will ye then turn back on your heels? If any did turn 
back on his heels, not the least harm will he do to Allah; but Allah (on the other hand) will swiftly 
reward those who (serve him) with gratitude. -145- Nor can a soul die except by Allah's leave, 
the term being fixed as by writing. If any do desire a reward in this life, we shall give it to him; 
and if any do desire a reward in the Hereafter, we shall give it to him. And swiftly shall we 
reward those that (serve us with) gratitude. -146- How many of the prophets fought (in Allah's 
way), and with them (fought) large bands of goodly men? but they never lost heart if they met 
with disaster in Allah's way, nor did they weaken (in will) nor give in. And Allah loves those who 
are firm and steadfast. -147- All that they said was: our Lord forgive us our sins and anything we 
may have done that transgressed our duty: establish our feet firmly, and help us against those 
that resist Faith. -148- And Allah gave them a reward in this world, and the excellent reward of 
the Hereafter. For Allah loveth those who do good. -149- O ye who believe if ye obey the 