their repentance be accepted; for they are those who have (of set purpose) gone astray. -91- As 
to those who reject Faith, and die rejecting, never would be accepted from any such as much 
gold as the earth contains, though they should offer it for ransom. For such is (in store) a 
penalty grievous, and they will find no helpers. 4th Section (Juzu') -92- By no means shall ye 
attain righteousness unless ye give (freely) of that which ye love; and whatever ye give, of a 
truth Allah knoweth it well. -93- All food was lawful to the Children of Israel, except what Israel 
made unlawful for itself, before the law (of Moses) was revealed. Say: bring ye the law and 
study it, if ye men of truth. -94- If any, after this, invent a lie and attribute it to Allah, they are 
indeed unjust wrongdoers. -95- Say: Allah speaketh the truth: follow the religion of Abraham, the 
sane in Faith; he was not of the pagans. -96- The first house (of worship) appointed for men 
was that at Bakka: full of blessing and of guidance for all kinds of beings: -97- In it are Signs 
manifest; (for example), the station of Abraham; whoever enters it attains security; pilgrimage 
thereto is a duty men owe to Allah, those who can afford the journey; but if any deny Faith, Allah 
stands not in need of any of his creatures. -98- Say: O People of the Book why reject ye the 
Signs of Allah, when Allah is himself witness to all ye do? -99- Say: O ye People of the Book 
why obstruct ye those who believe, from the path of Allah, seeking to make it crooked, while ye 
were yourselves witnesses (to Allah's Covenant)? but Allah is not unmindful of all that ye do. 
-100- O ye who believe if ye listen to a faction among the People of the Book, they would 
(indeed) render you apostates after ye have believed! -101- And how would ye deny Faith while 
unto you are rehearsed the Signs of Allah, and among you lives the Messenger? Whoever holds 
firmly to Allah will be shown a Way that is straight. -102- O ye who believe fear Allah as He 
should be feared, and die not except in a state of Islam. -103- And hold fast, all together, by the 
rope which Allah (stretches out for you), and be not divided among yourselves; and remember 
with gratitude Allah's favour on you; for ye were enemies and he joined your hearts in love, so 
that by his Grace, ye became brethren; and ye were on the brink of the pit of fire, and he saved 
you from it. Thus doth Allah make his Signs clear to you: that ye may be guided. -104- Let there 
arise out of you a band of people inviting to all that is good, enjoining what is right, and 
forbidding what is wrong: they are the ones to attain felicity.  
21  
-105- Be not like those who are divided amongst themselves and fall into disputation after 
receiving Clear Signs: for them is a dreadful penalty, -106- On the day when some faces will be 
(lit up with) white, and some faces will be (in the gloom of) black: to those whose faces will be 
black, (will be said): did you reject Faith after accepting it? taste then the penalty for rejecting 
Faith, -107- But those whose faces will be (lit with) white, they will be in (the light of) Allah's 
mercy: therein to dwell (forever). -108- These are the Signs of Allah: we rehearse them to thee 
in truth: and Allah means no injustice to any of his creatures. -109- To Allah belongs all that is in 
the heavens and no earth: to him do all questions go back (for decision). -110- Ye are the best 