But when the sun set, he said: O my people I am indeed free from your (guilt) of giving partners 
to Allah. -79- For me, I have set my face, firmly and truly, towards Him Who created the 
heavens and the earth, and never shall I give partners to Allah. -80- His people disputed with 
him. He said: (come) ye to dispute with me, about Allah, when he (Himself) hath guided me? I 
fear not (the beings) ye associate with Allah: unless my Lord willeth, (nothing can happen). My 
Lord comprehendeth in his knowledge all things. Will ye not (yourselves) be admonished? -81- 
How should I fear (the beings) ye associate with Allah, when ye fear not to give partners to Allah 
without any warrant having been given to you? which of (us) two parties hath more right to 
security? (tell me) if ye know. -82- It is those who believe and confuse not their beliefs with 
wrong that are (truly) in security, for they are on (right) guidance. -83- That was the reasoning 
about us, which we gave to Abraham (to use) against his people: we raise whom we will, degree 
after degree: for thy Lord is full of wisdom and knowledge. -84- We gave him Isaac and Jacob: 
all (three) we guided: and before him, we guided Noah, and among his progeny, David, 
Solomon, Job, Joseph, Moses, and Aaron: thus do we reward those who do good: -85- And 
Zakariya and john, and Jesus and Elias: all in the ranks of the righteous: -86- And IsmaTil and 
Elisha. And Jonas, and lot: and to all we gave favour above the nations: -87- (to them) and to 
their fathers, and progeny and brethren: we chose them, and we guided them to a straight way. 
-88- This is the guidance of Allah: he giveth that guidance to whom he pleaseth, of his 
worshippers. If they were to join other gods with him, all that they did would be vain for them. 
-89- These were the men to whom we gave the book, and authority, and Prophethood: if these 
(their descendants) reject them, behold we shall entrust their charge to a new people who reject 
them not. -90- Those were the (prophets) who received Allah's guidance: copy the guidance 
they received; say: no reward for this do I ask of you: this is no less than a message for the 
nations. -91- Do just estimate of Allah do they make when they say: nothing doth Allah send 
down to man (by way of revelation): say: who then sent down the book which Moses brought? a 
light and guidance to man: but ye make it into (separate) sheets for show, while ye conceal 
much (of its contents): therein were ye taught that which ye knew not neither ye nor your 
fathers. Say: Allah (sent it down): then leave them to plunge in vain discourse and trifling. -92- 
And this is a book which we have sent down, bringing blessings, and confirming (the 
revelations) which came before it: that thou mayest warn the mother of cities and all around her. 
Those who believe in the Hereafter believe in this (book), and they are constant in guarding 
their Prayers. -93- Who can be more wicked than one who inventeth a lie against Allah, or saith, 
I have received inspiration, when he hath received none, or (again) who saith, I can reveal the 
like of what Allah hath revealed? if thou couldst but see how the wicked (do fare) in the flood of 
confusion at death the angels stretch forth their hands, (saying), yield up your souls: this day 
shall ye receive your reward, a penalty of shame, for that ye used to tell lies against Allah, and 
scornfully to reject of his Signs -94- And behold ye come to us bare and alone as we created 
you for the first time: ye have left behind you all (the favours) which we bestowed on you: we 
see not with you your intercessors whom ye  