understand not, eyes wherewith they see not, and ears wherewith they hear not. They are like 
cattle, nay more misguided: for they are heedless (of warning). -180- The most beautiful names 
belong to Allah: so call on him by them; but shun such men as use profanity in his names: for 
what they do, they will soon be requited. -181- Of those we have created are people who direct 
(others) with truth. And dispense justice therewith. -182- Those who reject our Signs, we shall 
gradually visit with punishment, in ways they perceive not; -183- Respite will I grant unto them: 
for my scheme is strong (and unfailing). -184- Do they not reflect? their companion is not seized 
with madness: He is but a perspicuous warner. -185- Do they see nothing in the government of 
the heavens and the earth and all that Allah hath created? (do they not see) that it may well be 
that their term in nigh drawing to an end? in what message after this will they then believe? 
-186- To such as Allah rejects from his guidance, there can be no guide: He will leave them in 
their trespasses, wandering in distraction. -187- They ask thee about the (final) hour when will 
be its appointed time? say: the knowledge thereof is with my Lord (alone): none but He can 
reveal as to when it will occur. Heavy were its burden though the heavens and the earth. Only, 
all of a sudden will it come to you. They ask thee as if thou wart eager in search thereof: say: 
the knowledge thereof is with Allah (alone), but most men know not. -188- Say: I have no power 
over any good or harm to my self except as Allah willeth. If I had knowledge of the unseen I 
should have multiplied all good and no evil should have touched me: I am but a warner, and a 
bringer of glad tidings to those who have Faith. -189- It is He Who created you from a single 
person and made his mate of like nature, in order that he might dwell with her (in love). When 
they are united, she bears a light burden and carries it about (unnoticed) when she grows 
heavy, they both pray to Allah their Lord, (saying): if thou givest us a goodly child. We vow shall 
(ever) be grateful.  
60  
-190- But when He giveth them a goodly child, they ascribe to others a share in the gift they 
have received: but Allah is exalted high above the partners they ascribe to him. -191- Do they 
indeed ascribe to him as partners things that can create nothing, but are themselves created? 
-192- No aid can they give them nor can they aid themselves -193- If ye call them to guidance, 
they will not obey: for you it is the same whether ye call them or ye hold your peace -194- Verily 
those who mean ye who ye call upon besides Allah are servants like unto you: call upon them 
and let them lesson to your prayer, if ye are (indeed) truthful -195- Have they feet to walk with? 
or hands to lay hold with? or eyes to see with? or earth to hear with? say: call your Allah 
partners, scheme (your worst) against me, and give me no respite! -196- For my protector is 
Allah, who revealed the book (from time to time), and he will choose and befriend the righteous. 
-197- But those ye call upon besides him, are unable to help you, and indeed to help 
themselves. -198- If thou callest them to guidance, they hear not. Thou wilt see them looking at 
the but the see not. -199- Hold to forgiveness; command what is right; but turn away from the 