you). Verily in this are Signs for those who listen (to his message). -68- They say, Allah hath 
begotten a son glory be to him he is Self-Sufficient his are all things in the heavens and on earth 
no warrant have ye for this say ye about Allah what ye know not? -69- Say: those who invent a 
lie against Allah will never prosper. -70- A little enjoyment in this world and then, to us will be 
their return. Then shall we make them taste the severest penalty for their blasphemies. -71- 
Relate to them the story of Noah. Behold he said to his people: O my people, if it be hard on 
your (mind) that I should stay (with you) and commemorate the sings of Allah, yet I put my trust 
in Allah. Get ye then an agreement a bout your plan and among your partners, so your plan be 
not to you dark and dubious. Then pass your sentence on me, and give me no respite. -72- But 
if ye turn back, (consider): no reward have I asked of you: my reward is only due from Allah, and 
I have been commanded to be of those who submit to Allah's will (in Islam). -73- They rejected 
him, but we delivered him, and those with him, in the Ark and we made them inherit (the earth), 
while we overwhelmed in the flood those who rejected our Signs. Then see what was the end of 
those who were warned (but heeded not) -74- Then after him We sent (many) messengers to 
their Peoples: they brought them Clear Signs, but they would not believe what they had already 
rejected beforehand. Thus do We seal the hearts of the transgressors. -75- Then after them 
sent we Moses and Aaron to Pharaoh and his chiefs with our Signs. But they were arrogant: 
they were a people in sin. -76- When the truth did come to them from Us, they said: this is 
indeed evident sorcery -77- Said Moses: say ye (this) a bout the truth when it hath (actually) 
reached you? is sorcery (like) this? but sorcerers will not prosper. -78- They said: hast thou 
come to us to turn us away from the ways we found our fathers following, in order that thou and 
thy brother may have greatness in the land? But not we shall believe in you! -79- Said Pharaoh: 
bring me every sorcerer well versed. -80- When the sorcerers came, Moses said to them: throw 
ye what ye (wish) to throw! -81- When they had their throw, Moses said: what ye have brought 
is sorcery: of no effect: for Allah prospereth not the work of those who make mischief. -82- And 
Allah by his words doth prove and establish his truth, however much the sinners may hate it!  
75  
-83- But none believed in Moses except some children of his people, because of the fear of 
Pharaoh and his chiefs, lest they should persecute them; and certainly Pharaoh was mighty on 
the earth and one who transgressed all bounds. -84- Moses said: O my people if ye do (really) 
believe in Allah, then in him put your trust if ye submit (your will to his). -85- They said: in Allah 
do we put our trust. Our Lord make us not a trial for those who practise oppression; -86- And 
deliver us by thy mercy from those who reject (thee). -87- We inspired Moses and his brother 
with this message: provide dwellings for your people in Egypt, make your dwellings into places 
of worship, and establish regular Prayers: and give Glad tidings to those who believe! -88- 
Moses prayed: Our Lord thou hast indeed bestowed on Pharaoh and his chiefs splendour and 