Allah hath grasped the most trustworthy hand hold, never breaks. And Allah heareth and 
knoweth all things.  
14  
-257- Allah is the protector of those who have Faith: from the depths of darkness he will lead 
them forth into light. Of those who reject Faith the patrons are the evil ones: from light they will 
lead them froth into the depths of darkness. They will be companions of the fire, to dwell therein 
(forever). -258- Fast thou not turned thy vision to one who disputed with Abraham about his 
Lord, because Allah had granted him power? Abraham said: my Lord is He Who giveth life and 
death. He said: I give life and death. Said Abraham: but it is Allah that causeth the sun to rise 
from the east: do thou then cause him to rise from the west. Thus was he confounded who (in 
arrogance) rejected Faith. Nor doth Allah give guidance to a people unjust. -259- Or (take) the 
similitude of one who passed by a hamlet, all in ruins to its roofs. He said: oh! how shall Allah 
bring it (ever) to life, after (this) its death? but Allah caused him to die for a hundred years, then 
raised him up (again). He said: how long didst thou tarry (thus)? he said: (perhaps) a day or part 
of a day. He said: nay, thou hast tarried thus a hundred years; but look at thy food and thy drink; 
they show no Signs of age; and look at thy donkey: and that we may make of the e a sign unto 
the people, look further at the bones, how we bring them together and clothe them with flesh. 
When this was shown clearly to him, he said: I know that Allah hath power over all things. -260- 
Behold! Abraham said: my Lord! show me how thou givest life to the dead. He said: dost thou 
not then believe? he said: yea! but to satisfy my own understanding. He said: take four birds; 
tame them to turn to thee; but a portion of them on every hill, and call to them: they will come to 
thee (flying) with speed. Then know that Allah is exalted in power, wise. -261- The parable of 
those who spend their substance in the way of Allah is that of a grain of corn: it groweth seven 
ears, and each ear hath a hundred grains. Allah giveth manifold increase to whom he pleaseth: 
and Allah careth for all and he knoweth all things. -262- Those who spend their substance in the 
cause of Allah, and follow not up their gifts with reminders of their generosity or with injury, for 
them their reward is with their Lord: on them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve. -263- Kind 
words and the covering of faults are better than Charity followed by injury. Allah is free of all 
wants, and he is most forbearing. -264- O ye who believe! cancel not your Charity by reminders 
of your generosity or by injury, like those who spend their substance to be seen of men, but 
believe neither in Allah nor in the Last Day. They are in parable like a hard, barren rock, on 
which is a little soil: on it falls heavy rain, which leaves it (just) a bare stone. They will be able to 
do nothing with aught they have earned. And Allah guideth not those who reject Faith. -265- 
And the likeness of those who spend their substance, seeking to please Allah and to strengthen 
their souls, is as a garden, high and fertile; heavy rain falls on it but makes it yield a double 
increase of harvest, and if it receives not heavy rain, light moisture sufficeth it. Allah seeth well 
whatever ye do. -266- Does any of you wish that he should have a garden with date palms and 