Blazing Fire.  
6  
-120- Never will the Jews or the Christians be satisfied with thee unless thou follow their form of 
religion. Say: "The Guidance of Allah - that is the (only) Guidance," Wert thou to follow their 
desires after the knowledge which hath reached thee, then wouldst thou find neither Protector 
nor Helper against Allah. -121- Those to whom we have sent the Book study it as it should be 
studied: they are the ones that believe therein: those who reject Faith therein - the loss is their 
own. -122- O Children of Israel! call to mind the special favour which I bestowed upon you, and 
that I preferred you to all others (for My Message). -123- Then guard yourselves against a Day 
when one soul shall not avail another, nor shall compensation be accepted from her nor shall 
intercession profit her nor shall intercession profit her nor shall intercession profit her nor shall 
anyone be helped (from outside). -124- And remember that Abraham was tried by his Lord with 
certain Commands, which he fulfilled: he said: "I will make thee an Imam to the Nations." He 
pleaded: "And also (Imams) from my offspring!" He answered: "But my promise is not within the 
reach of evildoers." -125- Remember We made the House a place of assembly for men and a 
place of safety; and take ye the Station of Abraham as a place of prayer; and We covenanted 
with Abraham and IsmaTil, that they should sanctify My House for those who compass it round, 
or use it as a retreat, or bow, or prostrate themselves (therein in Prayer). -126- And remember 
Abraham said: "My Lord, make this a City of Peace, and feed its People with fruits - such of 
them as believe in Allah and the Last Day." He said: "(Yea), and such as reject Faith - for a 
while will I grant them their pleasure, but soon drive them to the torment of Fire - an evil 
destination (indeed)!" -127- And remember Abraham and IsmaTil raised the foundations of the 
House (with this prayer): "Our Lord! accept (this service) from us: for Thou art the All-Hearing, 
the All-Knowing. -128- "Our Lord! make of us Muslims, bowing to Thy (Will), and of our progeny 
a people Muslim, bowing to Thy (Will); and show us our places for the celebration of (due) rites; 
and turn unto us (in Mercy); for Thou art the Oft-Returning, Most Merciful. -129- "Our Lord! send 
amongst them a Messenger of their own, who shall rehearse Thy Signs to them and instruct 
them in Scripture and Wisdom, and sanctify them: for Thou art the Exalted in Might, the Wise." 
-130- And who turns away from the religion of Abraham but such as debase their souls with 
folly? Him We chose and rendered pure in this world: and he will be in the Hereafter in the ranks 
of the Righteous. -131- Behold! his Lord said to him: "Bow (thy will to Me):" he said: "I bow (my 
will) to the Lord and Cherisher of the Universe." -132- And this was the legacy that Abraham left 
to his sons, and so did Jacob; "Oh my sons! Allah hath chosen the Faith for you; then die not 
except in the state of submission (to Allah). -133- Were ye witnesses when Death appeared 
before Jacob? Behold, he said to his sons: "What will ye worship after me?" They said: "We 
shall worship thy God and the God of thy fathers, - of Abraham, IsmaTil, and Isaac. The One 
(True) God: to Him we bow (in Islam)." -134- That was a People that hath passed away. They 
shall reap the fruit of what they did, and ye of what ye do! Of their merits there is no question in 