forth in the heat." Say, "The fire of Hell is fiercer in heat." If only they could understand! -82- Let 
them laugh a little: much will they weep: a recompense for the (evil) that they do. -83- If, then, 
Allah bring thee back to any of them, and they ask thy permission to come out (with thee), say: 
never shall ye come out with me, nor fight an enemy with me: for ye preferred to sit inactive on 
the first occasion: then sit ye (now) with those who lag behind. -84- Nor do thou ever pray for 
any of them that dies, nor stand at his grave; for they rejected Allah and His Messenger, and 
died in a state of perverse rebellion. -85- Nor let their wealth nor their (following in) sons dazzle 
thee: Allah's plain is to punish them with these things in this world, and that their souls may 
perish in their (very) denial of Allah. -86- When a Surah comes down, enjoining them to believe 
in Allah and to strive and fight along with His Messenger, those with wealth and influence 
among them ask thee for exemption, and say: "Leave us (behind): we would be with those who 
sit (at home)." -87- They prefer to be with (the women), who remain behind (at home): their 
hearts are sealed and so they understand not. -88- But the Messenger, and those who believe 
with him, strive and fight with their wealth and their persons: for them are (all) good things: and it 
is they who will prosper. -89- Allah hath prepared for them Gardens under which rivers flow, to 
dwell therein: that is the supreme felicity.  
69  
-90- And their were, among the desert Arabs (also), men who made excuses and came to claim 
exemption; and those who were false to Allah and His Messenger (merely) sat inactive. Soon 
will a grievous penalty seize the Unbelievers among them. -91- There is no blame on those who 
are infirm, or ill, or who find no resources to spend (on the Cause), if they are sincere (in duty) to 
Allah and His Messenger: no ground (of complaint) can there be against such as do right: and 
Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -92- Nor (is there blame) on those who came to thee to be 
provided with mounts, and when thou saidst, I can find no mounts for you, turned back, their 
eyes streaming with tears of grief that they had no resources wherewith to provide the 
expenses. -93- The ground (of complaint) is against such as claim exemption while they are 
rich. They prefer to stay with the (women) who remain behind: Allah hath sealed their hearts; so 
they know not (what they miss). SURAH 9: AL TAWBAH (The Repentance) or BARA'AH (The 
Disavowal). -94- They will present their excuses to you when ye return to them. Say thou: 
"Present no excuses: we shall not believe you: Allah hath already informed us of the true state 
of matters concerning you: it is your actions that Allah and His Messenger will observe: in the 
end will ye be brought back to Him Who knoweth what is hidden and what is open: then will He 
show you the truth of all that ye did." -95- They will swear to you by Allah, when ye return to 
them, that ye may leave them alone. So leave them alone: for they are an abomination, and Hell 
is their dwelling place, a fitting recompense for the (evil) that they did. -96- They will swear unto 
you, that ye may be pleased with them. But if ye are pleased with them, Allah is not pleased 