whom there is nothing in the Hereafter but the fire: vain are the designs they frame therein, and 
of no effect are the deeds that they do!  
77  
-17- Can they be (like) those who excepts a clear (sign) from their Lord, and whom a witness 
from Himself doth teach, as did the book of Moses before it, a guide and a mercy? they believe 
therein; but those of the sects that reject it, the fire will be their promised meeting place. Be not 
then in doubt thereon: for it is the truth from thy Lord: yet many among men do not believe! -18- 
Who doth more wrong than those who invent a lie against Allah? they will be turned back to the 
presence of their Lord, and the witnesses will say. These are the ones who lied against their 
Lord behold the curse of Allah is on those who do wrong!- -19- Those who would hinder (men) 
from the path of Allah and would seek in it something crooked: these were they who denied the 
Hereafter! -20- They will in no wise frustrate (his design) on earth, nor have they protectors 
besides Allah their penalty will be doubled they lost the power to hear, and they did not see! -21- 
They are the ones who have lost their own souls: and the (fancies) they invented have left them 
in the lurch! -22- Without a doubt, these are the very ones who will lose most in the Hereafter! 
-23- But those who believe and work righteousness, and humble themselves before their Lord- 
they will be Companions of the Garden, to dwell therein for aye! -24- These two kinds (of men) 
may be compared to the blind and deaf, and those who can see and hear well. Are they equal 
when compared? will ye not then take heed? -25- We sent Noah to his people (with a mission): I 
have come to you with a clear warning: -26- That ye serve none but Allah: verily I do fear for you 
the penalty of a grievous day. -27- But the chiefs of the Unbelievers among his people said: we 
see (in) thee nothing but a man like ourselves: nor do we see that any follow thee but the 
meanest among us, in judgment immature: nor do we see in you (all) any merit above us: in fact 
we think ye are liars! -28- He said: O my people see ye if (it be that) I have a clear sign from my 
Lord, and that he hath sent mercy unto me from his own presence, but that the mercy hath been 
obscured from your sight? shall we compel you to accept it when ye are averse to it?  
-29- And O my people I ask you for no wealth in return: my reward is from none but Allah: but I 
will not drive away (in contempt) those who believe: for verily they are to meet their Lord, and ye 
I see are the ignorant ones -30- And O my people who would help me against Allah if I drove 
them away? will ye not then take heed? -31- I tell you not that with me are the treasures of 
Allah, nor do I know what is hidden, nor claim I to be an angel. Nor yet do I say, of those whom 
your eyes do despise that Allah will not grant them (all) that is good: Allah knoweth best what is 
in their souls: I should, if I did, indeed be a wrong doer. -32- They said: O Noah thou hast 
disputed with us, and (much) hast thou prolonged the dispute with us: now bring upon us what 
thou threatenest us with, if thou speakest the truth? -33- He said: Truly, Allah will bring it on you 
if he wills, and then, ye will not be able to frustrate it -34- Of no profit will be my counsel to you, 