Wise. -68- Had it not been for a previous ordainment from Allah, a severe penalty would have 
reached you for the (ransom) that ye took. -69- But (now) enjoy what ye took in war, lawful and 
good: but fear Allah; for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -70- O Prophet! say to those who 
are captives in your hands: "If Allah findeth any good in your hearts, He will give you something 
better than what has been taken from you, and He will forgive you: for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, 
Most Merciful. -71- But if they have treacherous designs against thee, (O Messenger!), they 
have already been in treason against Allah, and so hath He given (thee) power over them. And 
Allah is He who hath (full) knowledge and wisdom. -72- Those who believed, and adopted exile, 
and fought for the Faith, with their property and their persons, in the cause of Allah, as well as 
those who gave (them) asylum and aid, these are (all) friends and protectors, and of another. As 
to those who believed but came not into exile, ye owe no duty of  
64  
protection to them until they come into exile; but if they seek your aid in religion, it is your duty to 
help them, except against a people with whom ye have a treaty of mutual alliance. And 
(remember) Allah seeth all that ye do. -73- The Unbelievers are protectors, one of another: 
unless ye do this, (protect each other), there would be tumult and oppression on earth, and 
great mischief. -74- Those who believe, and adopt exile, and fight for the Faith, in the cause of 
Allah, as well as those who give (them) asylum and aid, these are (all) in very truth the 
Believers: for them is the forgiveness of sins and a provision most generous. -75- And those 
who accept Faith subsequently, and adopt exile, and fight for the Faith in your company, they 
are of you. But kindred by blood have prior rights against each other in the book of Allah. Verily 
Allah is well acquainted with all things.  
SURAH 9: AL TAWBAH (The Repentance) or BARA AH (The Disavowal). -1- A 
​
(declaration) of immunity from Allah and His Messenger, to those of the Pagans with whom ye 
have contracted mutual alliances- -2- Go ye, then, for four months, backwards and forwards, (as 
ye will), throughout the land, but know ye that ye cannot frustrate Allah (by your falsehood) but 
that Allah will cover with shame those who reject Him. -3- And an announcement from Allah and 
His Messenger, to the people (assembled) on the day of the Great Pilgrimage- that Allah and 
His Messenger dissolve (treaty) obligations with the Pagans. If, then, ye repent, it were best for 
you; but if ye turn away, know ye that ye cannot frustrate Allah. And proclaim a grievous penalty 
to those who reject Faith. -4- (But the treaties are) not dissolved with those pagans with whom 
ye have entered into alliance and who have not subsequently failed you in aught, nor aided any 
one against you. So fulfil your engagements with them to the end of their term: for Allah loveth 
the righteous. -5- But when the forbidden months are past, then fight and slay the pagans 
wherever ye find them, and seize them, beleaguer them, and lie in wait for them in every 