came, they will not believe. -110- We (too) shall turn to (confusion) their hearts and their eyes, 
even as they refused to believe in this in the first instance: we shall leave them in their 
trespasses, to wander in distraction. 8th Section (Juzu') -111- Even if we did send unto them 
angels, and the dead did speak unto them, and we gathered together all things before their very 
eyes, they are not the ones to believe, unless it is in Allah's plan. But most of them ignore (the 
truth). -112- Likewise did we make for every Messenger an enemy- evil ones among men and 
Jinns, inspiring each other with flowery discourses by way of deception. If thy Lord had so 
planned, they would not have done it: so leave them and their inventions alone.  
48  
-113- To such (deceit) let the heats of those incline, who have no Faith in the Hereafter: let them 
delight in it, and let them earn from it what they may. -114- Say: shall I seek for judge other than 
Allah? when he it is who hath sent unto you the book, explained in detail. They know full well, to 
whom we have given the book, that it hath been sent down from thy Lord in truth. Never be then 
of those who doubt. -115- The word of thy Lord doth find its fulfillment in truth and in justice: 
none can change his words: for he is the one who heareth and knoweth all. -116- Wert thou to 
follow the common run of those on earth, they will lead thee away from the way of Allah. They 
follow nothing but conjecture: they do nothing but lie. -117- Thy Lord knoweth best who strayeth 
from his way: he knoweth best who they are that receive his guidance. -118- So eat of (meats) 
on which Allah's name hath been pronounced, if ye have faith in His Signs. -119- Why should ye 
not eat of (meats) on which Allah's name hath been pronounced, when he hath explained to you 
in detail what is forbidden to you except under compulsion of necessity? but many do mislead 
(men) by their appetites unchecked by knowledge. Thy Lord knoweth best those who 
transgress. -120- Eschew all sin, open or secret: those who earn sin will get due recompense 
for their earnings. -121- Eat not of (meats) on which Allah's name hath not been pronounced: 
that would be impiety. But the evil ones ever inspire their friends to contend with you if ye were 
to obey them, ye would indeed be pagans. -122- Can he who was dead, to whom we gave life, 
and a light whereby he can walk amongst men, be like him who is in the depths of darkness, 
from which he can never come out? thus to those without Faith their own deeds seem pleasing. 
-123- Thus have we placed leaders in every town, its wicked men, to plot (and burrow) therein: 
but they only plot against their own souls, and they perceive it not. -124- When there comes to 
them a Sign (from Allah), they say: "We shall not believe until we receive one (exactly) like 
those received by Allah's Messengers." Allah knoweth best where (and how) to carry out his 
mission. Soon will the wicked be overtaken by humiliation before Allah, and a severe 
punishment, for all their plots. -125- Those whom Allah (in his plan) willeth to guide, he openeth 
their breast to Islam; those whom he willeth to leave straying, he maketh their breast close and 
constricted, as if they had to climb up to the skies: thus doth Allah (heap) the penalty on those 
who refuse to believe. -126- This is the way of the Lord, leading straight: we have detailed the 