remove from their hearts any lurking sense of injury- beneath them will be rivers flowing- and 
they shall say: "Praise be to Allah, who hath guided us to this (felicity): never could we have 
found guidance, had it not been for the guidance of Allah: indeed it was the truth that the 
Messengers of our Lord brought unto us." And they shall hear the cry: "Behold the Garden 
before you! ye have been made its inheritors, for your deeds (of righteousness)." -44- The 
Companions of the Garden will call out to the Companions of the Fire: "We have indeed found 
the promises of our Lord to us true: have you also found your Lord's promises true?" They shall 
say, "Yes"; but a Crier shall proclaim between them: "The curse of Allah is on the wrongdoers-  
53  
-45- "Those who would hinder (men) from the path of Allah and would seek in it something 
crooked: they were those who denied the Hereafter." -46- Between them shall be a veil, and on 
the Heights will be men who would know every one by his marks: they will call out to the 
Companions of the Garden, "Peace on you": they will not have entered, but they will have an 
assurance (thereof). -47- When their eyes shall be turned towards the Companions of the Fire, 
they will say: "Our Lord! send us not to the company of the wrongdoers." -48- The men on the 
Heights will call to certain men whom they will know from their marks, saying: "Of what profit to 
you wear your hoards and your arrogant ways? -49- "Behold! are these not the men whom you 
swore that Allah with His Mercy would never bless? enter ye the Garden: no fear shall be on 
you nor shall ye grieve." -50- The Companions of the Fire will call to the Companions of the 
Garden: "Pour down to us water or anything that Allah doth provide for your sustenance." They 
will say: "Both these things hath Allah forbidden to those who rejected Him- -51- "Such as took 
their religion to be mere amusement and play, and were deceived by the life of the world." That 
day shall We forget them as they forgot the meeting of this day of theirs, and as they were wont 
to reject Our Signs. -52- For We had certainly sent unto them a Book, based on knowledge, 
which we explained in detail- a guide and a mercy to all who believe. -53- Do they just wait for 
the final fulfillment of the event? On the day the event is finally fulfilled, those who disregarded it 
before will say: "The Messengers of our Lord did indeed bring true (tidings). Have we no 
intercessors now to intercede on our behalf? Or could we be sent back? Then should we 
behave differently from our behavior in the past." In fact they will have lost their souls, and the 
things they invented will leave them in the lurch. -54- Your Guardian-Lord is Allah, Who created 
the heavens and the earth in six Days, then He established Himself on the Throne (of authority): 
He draweth the night as a veil O'er the day, each seeking the other in rapid succession: He 
created the sun, the moon, and the stars, (all) governed by laws under His Command. Is it not 
His to create and to govern? Blessed be Allah, the Cherisher and Sustainer of the worlds! -55- 
Call on your Lord with humility and in private: for Allah loveth not those who trespass beyond 
bounds. -56- Do no mischief on the earth, after in hath been set in order, but call on him with 
fear and longing (in your hearts): for the mercy of Allah is (always) near to those who do good. 
-57- It is who sendeth the winds like heralds of glad tidings, going before his mercy: when they 