approaches one of you, our angels take his soul, and they never fail in their duty. -62- Then are 
men returned unto Allah, their protector, the (only) reality: is not his the command? and he is the 
swiftest in taking account. -63- Say: who is it that delivereth you from the dark recesses of land 
sea, when ye call upon him in humility and silent terror: if he only delivers us from these 
(dangers), (we vow) we shall truly show our gratitude. -64- Say: it is Allah that delivereth you 
from these and all (other) distresses; and yet ye worship false gods -65- Say: he hath power to 
send calamities on you, from above and below, or to cover you with confusion in party strife, 
giving you a taste of mutual vengeance each from the other. See how we explain the Signs by 
various (symbols); that they may understand. -66- But thy people reject this, though it is the 
truth. Say: not mine is the responsibility for arranging your affairs; -67- For every message is a 
limit of time, and soon shall ye know it. -68- When thou seest men engaged in vain discourse 
about our Signs, turn away from them unless they turn to a different theme. If Satan ever makes 
thee forget, then after recollection, sit not thou in the company of those who do wrong. -69- On 
their account no responsibility falls on the righteous, but (their duty) is to remind them, that they 
may (learn to) fear Allah. -70- Leave alone those who take their religion to be mere play and 
amusement, and are deceived by the life of this world. But proclaim (to them) this (truth): that 
every soul delivers itself to ruin by its own acts: it will find for itself no protector or intercessor 
except Allah: if it offered every ransom, (or reparation), none will be accepted: such is (the end 
of) those who deliver themselves to ruin by their own acts: they will have for drink (only) boiling 
water, and for punishment, one most grievous or they persisted in rejecting Allah. -71- Say: shall 
we indeed call on others besides Allah, things that can do us neither good nor harm, and turn on 
our heels after receiving guidance from Allah? like one whom the evil ones have made into a 
fool, wandering bewildered through the earth, his friends calling come to us, (vainly) guiding him 
to the path. Say: Allah's guidance is the (only) guidance, and we have been directed to submit 
ourselves to the Lord of the worlds; -72- To establish regular Prayers and to fear Allah: for it is 
to him that we shall be gathered together. -73- It is He Who created the heavens and the earth 
in true (proportions): the day he saith, be, behold it is. His word is the truth. His will be the 
dominion the day the trumpet will be blown. He knoweth the unseen as well as that which is 
open. For he is the wise, well acquainted (with all things).  
46  
-74- Lo Abraham said to his father Azar: takest thou idols for gods? for see thee and thy people 
in manifest error. -75- So also did we show Abraham the power and the laws of the heavens 
and the earth, that he might (with understanding) have certitude. -76- When the night covered 
him over, he saw a star: he said: this is my Lord. But when it set, he said: I love not those that 
set. -77- When he saw the moon rising in splendour, he said: this is my Lord. But when the 
moon set, he said: unless my Lord guide me, I shall surely be among those who go astray. -78- 
When he saw the sun rising in splendour, he said: this is my Lord; this is the greatest (of all). 