with no inclination transgression, Allah is indeed Oft- Forgiving, Most Merciful. -4- They ask thee 
what is lawful to them (as food). Say: lawful unto you are (all) things good and pure: and what 
ye have thought your trained hunting animals (to catch) in the manner directed to you by Allah: 
eat what they catch for you, but pronounce the name of Allah over it: and fear Allah; for Allah is 
swift in taking account. -5- This day are (all) things good and pure made lawful unto you. The 
food of the People of the Book is lawful unto you and yours is lawful unto them. (lawful) unto in 
marriage) are (not only) chaste women who are Believers, but chaste women among the People 
of the Book, revealed before your time, when you give them their due dowers, and desire 
chastity, not lewdness, nor secret intrigues. If any one rejects Faith, fruitless is his work, and in 
the Hereafter he will be in the ranks of those who have lost (all spiritual good). -6- O Ye who 
believe when ye prepare for prayer, wash your faces, and your hands (and arms) to the elbows; 
rub your heads (with water); and (wash) your feet to the ankles. If ye are in a state of ceremonial 
impurity, bath your whole body. But if ye are ill, or on a journey, or one of you cometh  
36  
from offices of nature, or ye have been in contact with women, and ye find no water, then take 
for yourselves clean sands or earth, and rub therewith your faces and hands. Allah doth not 
wish to place you in a difficulty, but to make you clean, and to complete his favour to you, that 
ye may be grateful. -7- And call in remembrance the favour of Allah unto you, and his 
convenient, which he ratified with you, when ye said: we hear and we obey; and fear Allah, for 
Allah knoweth well the secrets of your hearts. -8- O ye who believe stand out firmly for Allah, as 
witnesses to fair dealing, and let not the hatred of others to you make you swerve to wrong and 
depart from justice. Be just: that is next to piety: and fear Allah. For Allah is well acquainted with 
all that ye do. -9- To those who believe and do deeds of righteousness hath Allah promised 
forgiveness and a great reward. -10- Those who reject Faith and deny our Signs will be 
companions of Hell-fire. -11- O ye who believe call in remembrance the favour of Allah unto you 
when certain men formed the design to stretch out their hands against you, but (Allah) held back 
there hands from you: so fear Allah. And no Allah let Believers put (all) their trust. -12- Allah did 
aforetime take a covenant from the Children of Israel, and We appointed twelve captains among 
them. And Allah said: "I am with you: if ye (but) establish regular Prayers, practise regular 
Charity, believe in My messengers, honour and assist them, and loan to Allah a beautiful loan, 
verily I will wipe out from you your evils, and admit you to Gardens with rivers flowing beneath; 
but if any of you, after this, resisteth Faith, he truly wandered from the path of rectitude. -13- But 
because of their breach of their Covenant, we cursed them, and made their hearts grow hard: 
they change the words from their (right) places and forget a good part of the message that was 
sent them, nor wilt thou cease to find them barring a few ever bent on (new) deceits: but forgive 
them, and overlook (their misdeeds): for Allah loveth those who are kind. -14- From those, too, 
who call themselves Christians, we did take a Covenant, but they forgot a good part of the 
message that was sent them: so we estranged them, with enmity and hatred between the one 