could ask for pardon. -34- But what plea have they that Allah should not punish them, when they 
keep out (men) from the sacred Mosque and they are not its guardians? no men can be its 
guardians except the righteous; but most of them do not understand. -35- Their prayer at the 
house (of Allah) is nothing but whistling and clapping of hands: (its only answer can be), taste 
ye the penalty because ye blasphemed. -36- The Unbelievers spend their wealth to hinder 
(men) from the path of Allah, and so will they continue to spend; but in the end they will have 
(only) regrets and sighs; at length they will be overcome: and the Unbelievers will be gathered 
together to Hell; -37- In order that Allah may separate the impure from the pure, put the impure 
one on another, heap them together, and cast them into Hell. They will be the ones to have lost. 
-38- Say to the Unbelievers, if (now) they desist (from unbelief), their past would be forgiven 
them; but if they persist, the punishment of those before them is already (a matter of warning for 
them). -39- And fight them on until there is no more tumult or oppression, and there prevail 
justice and Faith in Allah altogether and everywhere; but if they cease, verily Allah doth see all 
that they do. -40- if they refuse, be sure that Allah is your protector the best to protect and the 
best to help. 10th Section (Juzu') -41- And know that out of all the booty that ye may acquire (in 
war), a fifth share is assigned to Allah- and to the Messenger, and to near relatives, orphans, 
the needy, and the wayfarer- if ye do believe in Allah and in the revelation We sent down to our 
Servant on the Day of Testing, the Day of the meeting of the tow forces. For Allah hath power 
over all things. -42- Remember ye were on the hither side of the valley, and they on the father 
side, and the caravan on lower ground than ye. Even if ye had made a mutual appointment to 
meet, ye would certainly have failed in the appointment: but (thus ye met), that Allah might 
accomplish a matter already enacted; that those who died might die after a clear sign (had been 
given), and those who lived might live after a clear sign (had been given). And verily Allah is He 
Who heareth and knoweth (all things). -43- Remember in thy dream Allah showed them to thee 
as few: if he had shown them to thee as many, ye would surely have been discouraged, and ye 
would surely have disputed in (your) decision: but Allah saved (you): for he knoweth well the 
(secrets) of (all) hearts. -44- And remember when ye met, he showed them to you as few in your 
eyes, and he made you appear as contemptible in their eyes: that Allah might accomplish a 
matter already enacted. For to Allah do all questions go back (for decision). -45- O ye who 
believe when ye meet a force, be firm, and call Allah in remembrance much (and often); that ye 
may prosper: -46- And obey Allah and His Messenger; and fall into no disputes, lest ye lose 
heart and your power depart; and be patient and persevering: for Allah is with those who 
patiently persevere: -47- And be not like those who started from their homes insolently and to be 
seen of men, and to hinder (men) from the path of Allah: for Allah compasseth round about all 
that they do. -48- Remember Satan made their (sinful) acts seem alluring to them, and said: no 
one among men can overcome you this day, while I am near to you: but when the two forces 
came in sight of each other, he turned on his heels, and said: Lo I am clear of you; lo I see what 
ye see not; Lo I fear Allah; for Allah is strict in punishment. -49- Lo the Hypocrites say, and 
those in whose hearts is a disease: these people, their religion has misled them. But if any trust 