from evil and mischief on the earth. -75- The leaders of the arrogant party among his people 
said to those who were reckoned powerless- those among them who believed: "Know ye indeed 
that Salih is a messenger from his Lord?" They said: "We do indeed believe in the revelation 
which hath been sent through him." -76- The arrogant party said: "For our part, we reject what 
ye believe in." -77- Then they ham strung the she-camel, and insolently defied the order of their 
Lord, saying: "O Salih! bring about thy threats, if thou art a messenger (of Allah)!" -78- So the 
earthquake took them unawares, and they lay prostrate in their homes in the morning! -79- So 
Salih left them, saying: "O my people! I did indeed convey to you the message for which I was 
sent by my Lord: I gave you good counsel, but ye love not good counselors!" -80- We also 
(sent) Lut: He said to his people: "Do ye commit lewdness such as no people in creation (ever) 
committed before you? -81- "For ye practise your lusts on men in preference to women: ye are 
indeed a people transgressing beyond bounds." -82- And his people gave no answer but this: 
they said, drive them out of your city: these are indeed men who want to be clean and pure. -83- 
But we saved him and his family, except his wife: she was of those who lagged behind. -84- And 
we rained down on them a shower (of brimstone): then see what was the end of those who 
indulged in sin and crime -85- To the Madyan people we sent Shu'aib, one of their own 
brethren: he said: o my people worship Allah; ye have no other god but him. Now hath come 
unto you a clear (sign) from your Lord give just measure and weight, nor withhold from the 
people the things that are their due; and do no mischief on the earth after it has been set in 
order: that will be best for you, if ye have Faith. -86- And squat not on every road, breathing 
threats, hindering from the path of Allah those who believe in him, and seeking in it something 
crooked; but remember how ye were little, and He gave you increase. And hold in your mind's 
eye what was the end of those who did mischief,  
55  
-87- And if there is a party among you who believes in the message with which I have been 
sent, and a party which does not believe, hold yourself in patience until Allah doth decide 
between us: for He is the best to decide. 9th Section (Juzu') -88- The leaders, the arrogant party 
among his people, said: O Shu'aib we shall certainly drive thee out of our city (thee) and those 
who believe with thee; or else ye (thou and they) shall have to return to our ways and religion. 
He said: what even though we do detest (them)? -89- We should indeed invent a lie against 
Allah, if we returned to your ways after Allah hath rescued us therefor; nor could we by any 
manner of means return thereto unless it be as in the will and plan of Allah, our Lord can reach 
out to the utmost recesses of things by his knowledge. In Allah is our trust. Our Lord decide thou 
between us and our people in truth, for thou art the best to decide. -90- The leaders, the 
Unbelievers among his people, said: if ye follow Shu'aib, be sure then ye are ruined. -91- But 
the earthquake took them unawares, and they lay prostrate in their homes before the morning. 