have carried the heavy laden clouds, we drive them to a land that is dead, make rain to descend 
thereon, and produce every kind of harvest therewith: thus shall we raise up the dead: 
perchance ye may remember. -58- From the land that is clean and good, by the will of its 
Cherisher, springs up produce, (rich) after its Kind: but from the land that is bad, springs up 
nothing but that which is niggardly: thus do we explain the Signs by various (symbols) to those 
who are grateful. -59- We sent Noah to his people. He said: O my people Worship Allah ye have 
No other Allah but him. I fear for you the punishment of a dreadful day -60- The leaders of his 
people said: Ah we see thee evidently wandering (in mind). -61- He said: "O my people! no 
wandering is there in my (mind): on the contrary I am a messenger from the Lord and Cherisher 
of the Worlds! -62- I but fulfil towards you the duties of my Lord's mission: sincere is my advice 
to you, and I know from Allah something that ye know not. -63- Do ye wonder that there hath 
come to you a message from your Lord, through a man of your own people, to warn you, so that 
ye may fear Allah and happily receive his mercy? -64- But they rejected him, and we delivered 
him, and those with him in the ark: but we overwhelmed in the flood those who rejected our 
Signs. They were indeed a blind people -65- To the Aad people, (we sent) Hud, one of their 
(own) brethren: he said: O my people worship Allah ye have no other Allah but him will ye not 
fear (Allah)?  
54  
-66- The leaders of the Unbelievers among his people said: Ah we see thou art an imbecile and 
we think thou art a liar -67- He said: "O my people! I am no imbecile, but (I am) a messenger 
from the Lord and Cherisher of the Worlds! -68- "I but fulfil towards you the duties of my Lord's 
mission: I am to you a sincere and trustworthy adviser. -69- "Do ye wonder that there hath come 
to you a message from your Lord through a man of your own people, to warn you? Call in 
remembrance that He made you inheritors after the people of Noah, and gave you a stature tall 
among the nations. Call in remembrance the benefits (ye have received) from Allah: that so ye 
may prosper." -70- They said: "Comest thou to us, that we may worship Allah alone, and give up 
the cult of our fathers? Bring us what thou threatenest us with, if so be that thou tellest the 
truth!" -71- He said: "Punishment and wrath have already come upon you from your Lord: 
dispute ye with me over names which ye have devised- ye and your fathers- without authority 
from Allah? then wait: I am amongst you, also waiting." -72- We saved him and those who 
adhered to him, by our mercy, and we cut off the roots of those who rejected our Signs and did 
not believe. -73- To the Thamud people (we sent) Salih, one of their own brethren: he said: O 
my people worship Allah; ye have no other Allah but him. Now hath come unto you a clear 
(sign) from your Lord this she camel of Allah is a sign unto you: so leave her to graze in Allah's 
earth, and let her come to no harm, or you shall be seized with a grievous punishment. -74- And 
remember how He made you inheritors after the Aad people and gave you habitations in the 
land: ye build for yourself palaces and castles in (open) plains, and carve out homes in the 
mountains; so bring to remembrance the benefits (ye have received) from Allah, and refrain 