Unbelievers, they will drive you back on your heels, and ye will turn back (from Faith) to your 
own loss. -150- Nay, Allah is your protector, and he is the best of helpers.  
23  
-151- Soon shall we cast terror into the hearts of the Unbelievers, for that they joined 
companions with Allah, for which he had sent no authority: their abode will be the fire: end evil is 
the home of the wrongdoers -152- Allah did indeed fulfil his promise to you when ye with his 
permission were about to annihilate your enemy, until ye flinched and fell to disputing about the 
order, and disobeyed it after he brought you in sight (of the booty) which ye covet. Among you 
are some that hanker after this world and some that desire the Hereafter, then did he divert you 
from your foes in order to test you. But he forgave you: for Allah is full of Grace to those who 
believe. -153- Behold! ye were climbing up the high ground, without even casting a side glance 
at anyone, and the Messenger in your rear was calling you back. There did Allah give you one 
distress after another by way of requital, to teach you not to grieve for (the booty) that had 
escaped you and for (the ill) that had befallen you. For Allah is well aware of all that ye do. -154- 
After (the excitement) of the distress, he sent down calm on a band of you overcome with 
slumber, while another band was stirred to anxiety by their own feelings, moved by wrong 
suspicions of Allah suspicions due to ignorance. They said: what affair is this of ours? say thou: 
indeed, this affair is wholly Allah's they hide in their minds what they dare not reveal to thee. 
They say (to themselves): if we had anything to do with this affair, we should not have been in 
the slaughter here. Say: even if you had remained in your homes, those for whom death was 
decreed would certainly have gone forth to the place of their death; but (all this was) that Allah 
might test what is in your breasts and purge what is in your hearts. For Allah knoweth well the 
secrets of your hearts. -155- Those of you who turned back on the day the two hosts met, it was 
Satan who caused them to fail, because of some (evil) they had done. But Allah has blotted out 
(their fault): for Allah is Oft- Forgiving, most forbearing. -156- O ye who believe be not lick the 
Unbelievers, who say of their brethren, when they are travelling through the earth or engaged in 
fighting: if they had stayed with us, they would not have died, or been slain. This that Allah may 
make it a cause of sighs and regrets in their hearts. It is Allah that gives life and death, and 
Allah sees well all that ye do. -157- And if ye are slain, or die in the way of Allah, forgiveness 
and mercy from Allah are far better than all they could amass. -158- And if ye die, or are slain, lo 
it is unto Allah that ye are brought together. -159- It is part of the mercy of Allah that dost deal 
gently with them. Wert thou severe or harsh hearted, they would have broken away from about 
thee: so pass over (their faults), and ask for (Allah's) forgiveness them in affairs (of moment). 
Then when thou hast taken a decision, put thy trust in Allah. For Allah loves those who put their 
trust (in him). -160- If Allah help you, non can overcome you: if he forsakes you, who is there, 
after that, that can help you? in Allah, then, let Believers put their trust. -161- Do prophet could 