slay! -88- They say, "Our hearts are the wrappings (which preserve Allah's Word: we need no 
more)." Nay, Allah's curse is on them for their blasphemy: little is it they believe. -89- And when 
there comes to them a Book from Allah, confirming what is with them - although from of old they 
had prayed for victory against those without Faith - when there comes to them that which they 
(should) have recognized. They refuse to believe in it but the curse of Allah is on those without 
Faith. -90- Miserable is the price for which they have sold their souls, in that they deny (the 
revelation) which Allah has sent down, in insolent envy that Allah of His Grace should send it to 
any of his servants He pleases: thus have they drawn on themselves wrath upon wrath. And 
humiliating is the punishment of those who reject Faith. -91- When it is said to them, believe in 
what Allah hath sent down, they say, we believe in what was sent down to us: yet they reject all 
besides, even if it be truth confirming what is with them. Say: why then have ye slain the 
prophets of Allah in times gone by, if ye did indeed believe? -92- There came to you Moses with 
clear (Signs); yet ye worshipped the calf (even) after that, and ye did behave wrongfully. -93- 
And remember we took your Covenant and we raised above you (the towering height) of mount 
(Sinai): (saying): "Hold firmly to what We have given you, and hearken (to the law)": they said: 
"We hear, and we disobey": and they had to drink into their hearts (of the taint) of the calf 
because of their faithlessness. Say: "Vile indeed are the behests of your Faith if ye have any 
faith!" -94- Say: "If the last home, with Allah, be for you specially, and not for anyone else, then 
seek ye for death, if ye are sincere." -95- But they will never seek for death, on account of the 
(sins) which their hands have sent on before them. And Allah is well acquainted with the 
wrongdoers. -96- Thou wilt indeed find them, of all people, most greedy of life, even more than 
the idolaters: each one of them wishes he could be given a life of a thousand years: but the 
grant of such life will not save him from (due) punishment. For Allah sees well all that they do. 
-97- Say: whoever is an enemy to Gabriel - for he brings down the (revelation) to they heart by 
Allah's will, a confirmation of what went before, and guidance and glad tidings for those who 
believe - -98- Whoever is an enemy to Allah and His angels and prophets, to Gabriel and 
Michael - lo! Allah is an enemy to those who reject Faith. -99- We have sent down to thee 
manifest Signs; and none reject them but those who are perverse. -100- Is it not (the case) that 
every time they make a Covenant, some party among them throw it aside? - Nay, most of them 
are faithless.  
5  
-101- And when there came to them a Messenger from Allah, confirming what was with them, a 
party of the People of the Book threw away the Book of Allah behind their backs. As if (it had 
been something) they did not know! -102- They followed what the evil ones gave out (falsely) 
against the power of Solomon: the blasphemers were, not Solomon, but the evil ones, teaching 
men magic, and such things as came down at Babylon to the angels Harut and Marut. But 
neither of these taught anyone (such things) without saying: "We are only for trial; so do not 