themselves pure and clean. -223- Your wives are as a tilth unto you; so approach your tilth 
when or how ye will; but do some good act for your souls beforehand and fear Allah, and know 
that ye are to meet him (in the Hereafter), and give (these) good tidings to those who believes. 
-224- And make not Allah's (name) and excuse in your oaths against doing good, or acting 
rightly, or making peace between persons; for Allah is one who heareth and knoweth all things. 
-225- Allah will not call you to account for thoughtlessness in your oath, but for the intention in 
your hearts; and he is Oft-Forgiving most forbearing. -226- For those who take an oath for 
abstention from their wives, awaiting for four month is ordained; if then they return, Allah is 
Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -227- But if their intention is firm for divorce, Allah heareth and 
knoweth all things. -228- Divorced women shall wait concerning themselves for three monthly 
periods. Nor is it lawful for them to hide what Allah hath created in their wombs, if they have 
Faith in Allah and the Last Day. And their husbands have the better right to take them back in 
that period, if they wish for reconciliation. And women shall have rights similar to the rights 
against them, according to what is equitable; but men have degree (of advantage) over them. 
And Allah is exalted in power wise. -229- A divorce is only permissible twice: after that, the 
parties should either hold together on equitable terms, or separate with kindness. It is not lawful 
for you, (men), to take back any of your gift (from your wives), except when both parties fear 
that they would be unable to keep the limits ordained by Allah. If ye (judges) do indeed fear that 
they would be unable to keep the limits ordained by Allah,  
12  
there is no blame on either of them if she give something for her freedom. These are the limits 
ordained by Allah such persons wrong (themselves as well as others). -230- So if a husband 
divorces his wife (irrevocably), he cannot, after that, remarry her until after she has married 
another husband and he has divorced her. In that case there is no blame on either of them if 
they reunite, provided they feel that they can keep the limits ordained by Allah. Such are the 
limits ordained by Allah which he makes plain to those who understand. -231- When ye divorce 
women and they fulfil the term of their (Iddat), either take them back on equitable terms or set 
them free on equitable terms; but don't take then back to injure them, (or) to take undue 
advantage; if any one does that he wrongs his own soul. Do not treat Allah's Signs as a jest, but 
solemnly rehearse Allah's favours on you, and the fact that he sent down to you the book and 
wisdom, for your instruction. And fear Allah, and know that Allah is well acquainted with all 
things. -232- When you divorce women, and they fulfil the term of their (Iddat), do not prevent 
them from marrying their (former) husbands, if they mutually agree on equitable terms. This 
instruction is for all amongst you, who believe in Allah and the Last Day. That is (the course 
making for) most virtue and purity amongst you. And Allah knows, and ye know not. -233- The 
mothers shall give suck to their offspring for two whole years, if the father desires to complete 
the term. But he shall bear the cost of their food and clothing on equitable terms. No soul shall 