therein, and fight the Pagans all together as they fight you all together. But know that Allah is 
with those who restrain themselves. -37- Verily the transposing (of a prohibited month) is an 
addition to unbelief: the Unbelievers are led to wrong thereby: for they make it lawful one year, 
and forbidden another year, in order to adjust the number of months forbidden by Allah and 
make such forbidden ones lawful. The evil of their course seems pleasing to them. But Allah 
guideth not those who reject Faith. -38- O ye who believe what is the matter with you, that when 
ye are asked to go forth in the cause of Allah, ye cling heavily to the earth? do ye refer the life of 
this world to the Hereafter? but little is the comfort of this life, as compared with the Hereafter. 
-39- Unless ye go forth, he will punish you with a grievous penalty, and put others in your place; 
but him ye would not harm in the least. For Allah hath power over all things. -40- If ye help not 
(your Leader), (it is no matter): for Allah did indeed help him, when the Unbelievers drove him 
out: he had no more than one companion: they tow were in the Cave, and he said to his 
companion, have no fear, for Allah is with us: then Allah sent down his peace upon him, and 
strengthened him with forces which ye saw not, and humbled to the depths the word of the 
Unbelievers. But the word of Allah is exalted to the heights: for Allah is Exalted in might, Wise. 
-41- Go ye forth, (whether equipped) lightly or heavily, and strive and struggle, with your goods 
and your persons, in the cause of Allah. That is best for you, if ye (but) knew. -42- If there had 
been immediate gain (in sight), and the journey easy, they would (all) without doubt have 
followed thee, but the distance was long, (and weighed) on them. They would indeed swear by 
Allah, if we only could, we should certainly have come out with you: they would destroy their 
own souls; for Allah doth know that they are certainly lying. -43- Allah give thee Grace why didst 
thou grant them exemption until those who told the truth were seen by thee in a clear light, and 
thou hadst proved the liars? -44- Those who believe in Allah and the Last Day ask thee for no 
exemption from fighting with their goods and persons. And Allah knoweth well those who do 
their duty. -45- Only those ask thee for exemption who believe not in Allah and the Last Day, 
and whose hearts are in doubt, so that they are tossed in their doubts to and fro. -46- If they had 
intended to come out, they would certainly have made some preparation therefor; but Allah was 
averse to their being sent forth; so he made them lag behind, and they were told, sit ye among 
those who sit (inactive). -47- If they had come out with you, they would not have added to your 
(strength) but only (made for) disorder, hurrying to and fro in your midst and sowing sedition 
among you, and there would have been some among you who would have listened to them. But 
Allah knoweth well those who do wrong. -48- Indeed they had platted sedition before, and upset 
matters for thee, until the truth arrived, and the decree of Allah became manifest, much to their 
disgust. -49- Among them is (many) a man who says: grant me exemption and draw me not into 
trial. Have they not fallen into trial already? and indeed Hell surrounds the Unbelievers (on all 
sides). -50- If good befalls thee, it grieves them; but if a misfortune befalls thee, they say, we 
took indeed our precautions beforehand, and they turn away rejoicing. -51- Say: nothing will 
happen to us except to us except what Allah has decreed for us: he is our protector: and on 
Allah let the Believers put their trust.  