blaspheme." They learned from them the means to sow discord between man and wife. But they 
could not thus harm anyone except by Allah's permission. And they learned what harmed them, 
not what profited them. And they knew that the buyers of (magic) would have no share in the 
happiness of the Hereafter. And vile was the price for which they did sell their souls, if they but 
knew! -103- If they had kept their Faith and guarded themselves from evil, far better had been 
the reward from their Lord, if they but knew! -104- O ye of Faith! say not (to the Prophet) words 
of ambiguous import, but words of respect; and hearken (to him): to those without Faith is a 
grievous punishment. -105- It is never the wish of those without Faith among the People of the 
Book, nor of the pagans, that anything good should come down to you from your Lord. But Allah 
will choose for his special mercy whom He will - for Allah is Lord of Grace abounding. -106- 
None of Our revelations do We abrogate or cause to be forgotten, but We substitute something 
better or similar: knowest thou not that Allah hath power over all things? -107- Knowest thou not 
that to Allah belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth? And besides Him ye have 
neither patron nor helper. -108- Would ye question your Messenger as Moses was questioned 
of old? But whoever changeth from Faith to Unbelief, hath strayed without doubt from the even 
way. -109- Quite a number of the People of the Book wish they could turn you (people) back to 
infidelity after ye have believed. From selfish envy, after the Truth hath become manifest unto 
them: but forgive and overlook, till Allah accomplishes his purpose: for Allah hath power over all 
things. -110- And be steadfast in prayer and regular in charity: and whatever good ye send forth 
for your souls before you, ye shall find it with Allah: for Allah sees well all that ye do. -111- And 
they say: "None shall enter Paradise unless he be a Jew or a Christian." Those are their (vain) 
desires. Say: "Produce your proof if ye are truthful." -112- Nay, whoever submits his whole self 
to Allah and is a doer of good - he will get his reward with his Lord; on such shall be no fear, nor 
shall they grieve. -113- The Jews say: "The Christians have naught (to stand) upon"; and the 
Christians say: "The Jews have naught (to stand) upon." Yet they (profess to) study the (same) 
book. Like unto their word is what those say who know not; but Allah will judge between them in 
their quarrel on the Day of Judgment. -114- And who is more unjust than he who forbids that in 
places for the worship of Allah, His name should be celebrated? - whose zeal is (in fact) to ruin 
them? It was not fitting that such should themselves enter them except in fear. For them there is 
nothing but disgrace in this world, and in the world to come, an exceeding torment. -115- To 
Allah belong the East and the West: whithersoever ye turn, there is the presence of Allah. For 
Allah is All-Embracing, All-Knowing. -116- They say: "Allah hath begotten a son": Glory be to 
him - Nay, to Him belongs all that is in the heavens and on earth: everything renders worship to 
Him. -117- To Him is due the primal origin of the heavens and the earth: when he decreeth a 
matter, he saith to it: "Be", and it is. -118- Say those without knowledge: "Why speaketh not 
Allah unto us? or why cometh not unto us a sign?" So said the people before them words of 
similar import. Their hearts are alike. We have indeed made clear the Signs unto any people 
who hold firmly to Faith (in their hearts). -119- Verily We have sent thee in truth as a bearer of 
glad tidings and a warner: but of thee no question shall be asked of the companions of the 