Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -108- Say: O ye men now truth hath reached you from your Lord 
those who receive guidance, do so for the good of their own souls; those who stray, do so to 
their own loss: and I am not (set) over you to arrange your affairs. -109- Follow thou the 
inspiration sent unto thee, and be patient and constant, till Allah do decide: for he is the best to 
decide.  
SURAH 11: HUD (The Prophet Hud). -1- A. L. R. (this is) a book, with verses basic or 
​
fundamental (of established meaning), further explained in detail, from one who is wise and well 
acquainted (with all things): -2- (It teacheth) that ye should worship none but Allah. (say;) verily I 
am (sent) unto you from him to warn and to bring glad tidings: -3- (And to preach thus), seek ye 
the forgiveness of your Lord, and turn to him in repentance; that he may grant you enjoyment, 
good (and true), for a term appointed, and bestow his abounding Grace on all who abound in 
merit but if ye turn away, then I fear for you the Penalty of a great day; -4- To Allah is your 
return, and he hath power over all things. -5- Behold they fold up their hearts, that they may lie 
hid from Him! Ah! even when they cover themselves with their garments, He knoweth what they 
conceal, and what they reveal: for He knoweth well the (inmost secrets) of the hearts. -6- There 
is no moving creature on earth but its sustenance dependeth on Allah: he knoweth the time and 
place of its definite abode and its temporary deposit: all is in a clear record. -7- He it is who 
created the heavens and the earth in six days and his throne was over the waters that he might 
try you, which of you is best in conduct. But if thou wert to say to them, ye shall indeed be raised 
up after death, the Unbelievers would be sure to say, this is nothing but obvious sorcery -8- If 
we delay the penalty for them for a definite term, they are sure to say, what keeps it back? ah 
on the day it (actually) reaches them, nothing will turn it away from them, and they will be 
completely encircled by that which they used to mock at! -9- If we give man a taste of mercy 
from ourselves, and then withdraw it from him, behold he is in despair and (falls into) 
blasphemy. -10- But if we give him a taste of (our) favours after adversity hath touched him, he 
is sure to say, all evil has departed from me: behold he falls into exultation and pride. -11- Not 
so those who show patience and constancy, and work righteousness; for them is forgiveness (of 
sins) and a great reward. -12- Perchance thou mayest (feel the inclination) to give up a part of 
what is revealed unto thee, and thy heart feeleth straitened lest they say, why is not a treasure 
sent down unto him, or why does not an angel come down with him? but thou art there only to 
warn it is Allah that arrangeth all affairs! -13- Or they may say, he forged it. Say, bring ye then 
ten Surahs forged, like unto it, and call (to your aid) whomsoever ye can, other than Allah if ye 
speak the truth! -14- If then they (your false gods) answer not your (call), know ye that this 
revelation is sent down (replete) with the knowledge of Allah, and that there is no god but he will 
ye even then submit (to Islam)? -15- Those who desire the life of the present and its glitter, to 
them we shall pay (the price of) their deeds therein, without diminution. -16- They are those for 