and the other, to the day of judgment. And soon will Allah show them what it is they have done. 
-15- O People of the Book! there hath come to you Our Messenger, revealing to you much that 
ye used to hide in the Book, and passing over much (that is now unnecessary): There hath 
come to you from Allah a (new) light and a perspicuous Book- -16- Wherewith Allah guideth all 
who seek his good pleasure to ways of peace and safety, and leadeth them out of darkness, by 
his will, unto the light, guideth them to a path that is straight. -17- In blasphemy indeed are those 
that say that Allah is Christ the son of Mary. Say: who then hath the least power against Allah, if 
his will were to destroy Christ the son of Mary, his mother, and all every one that is on the 
earth? for to Allah belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth, and all that is between. 
He createth what he pleaseth. For Allah hath power over all things. -18- (both) the Jews and the 
Christians say: we are sons of Allah, and his beloved. Say: why then doth he punish you for 
your sins? nay, ye are but men, of the men he created: he forgiveth whom he pleaseth, and he 
punisheth whom he pleaseth,: and to god belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth, 
and all that is between: and unto him is the final goal (of all) -19- O People of the Book! now 
hath come unto you, making (things) clear unto you, Our Messenger, after the break in (the 
series of) our messengers, lest ye should say: "There came unto us no bringer of glad tidings 
and no warner (from evil)"; but now hath come unto you a bringer of glad tidings and a warner 
(from evil). And Allah hath power over all things. -20- Remember Moses said to his people: "O 
my People! call in remembrance the favour of Allah unto you, when He produced prophets 
among you, made you kings, and gave you what He had not given to any other among the 
peoples. -21- O my people enter the holy land which Allah hath assigned unto you, and turn not 
back ignominiously, for then will ye be overthrown, to your own ruin, -22- They said: O Moses in 
this land are a people of exceeding strength: never shall we enter it until they leave it: if (once) 
they leave, then shall we enter.  
37  
-23- (but) among (their) God-Fearing men were two on whom Allah had bestowed His grace: 
they said: "Assault them at the (proper) Gate: when once ye are in, victory will be yours; But on 
Allah put your trust if ye have Faith." -24- They said: "O Moses! while they remain there, never 
shall we be able to enter, to the end of time. Go thou, and thy Lord, and fight ye two, while we 
sit here (and watch)." -25- He said: "O my Lord! I have power only over myself and my brother: 
so separate us from this rebellious people!" -26- Allah said: "Therefore will the land be out of 
their reach for forty years: in distraction will they wander through the land: but sorrow thou not 
over these rebellious people." -27- Recite to them the truth of the story of the two sons of Adam. 
Behold they each presented a sacrifice (to Allah): it was accepted from one, but not from the 
other. Said the latter: be sure I will slay thee. Surely, said the former, Allah doth accept of the 
sacrifice of those who are righteous. -28- If thou dost stretch thy hand against me, to slay me, it 
is not for me to stretch my hand against thee to slay thee: for I do fear Allah, the Cherisher of 