Merciful of those who show mercy -152- Those who took the calf (for worship) will indeed be 
overwhelmed with wrath from their Lord, and with shame in this life: thus do we recompense 
those who invent (falsehoods). -153- But those who do wrong but repent thereafter and (truly) 
believe, verily thy Lord is thereafter Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. -154- When the anger of 
Moses was appeased, he took up the tablets: in the writing thereon was guidance and mercy for 
such as fear their Lord.  
58  
-155- And Moses chose seventy of his people for our place of meeting: when they were seized 
with violent quaking, he prayed: O my Lord if it had been thy will thou couldst have destroyed, 
long before, both them and me: wouldst thou destroy us for the deeds of the foolish once among 
us? this is no more than trial: by it thou causest whom thou wilt to stray and thou leadest whom 
thou wilt into the right path. Thou art our protector: so forgive us and give us the mercy: for thou 
art the best of those who forgive. -156- And ordain for us that which is good, in this life and in 
the Hereafter: for we have turned unto thee. He said: with my punishment I visit whom I will; but 
my mercy extendeth to all things. That (mercy) I shall ordain for those who do right, and practise 
regular Charity, and those who believe in our Signs; -157- "Those who follow the Messenger, 
the unlettered Prophet, whom they find mentioned in their own (Scriptures)- in the Law and the 
Gospel- for he commands them what is just and forbids them what is evil; he allows them as 
lawful what is good (and pure) and prohibits them from what is bad (and impure); he releases 
them from their heavy burdens and from the yokes that are upon them. So it is those who 
believe in him, honour him, help him, and follow the Light which is sent down with him- it is they 
who will prosper." -158- Say: "O men! I am sent unto you all, as the Messenger of Allah, to 
Whom belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth: there is no god but He: it is He that 
giveth both life and death. So believe in Allah and His Messenger, the unlettered Prophet, who 
believeth in Allah and His Words: follow him that (so) ye may be guided." -159- Of the people of 
Moses there is a section who guide and do justice in the light of truth. -160- We divided them 
into twelve Tribes or nations. We directed Moses by inspiration, when his (thirsty) people asked 
him for water: "Strike the rock with thy staff": out of it there gushed forth twelve springs: each 
group knew its own place for water. We gave them the shade of clouds, and sent down to them 
manna and quails, (saying): "Eat of the good things we have provided for you": (but they 
rebelled); to Us they did no harm, but they harmed their own souls. -161- And remember it was 
said to them: dwell in this town and eat therein as ye wish, but say the word of humility and 
enter the gate in a posture of humility: we shall forgive you your faults; we shall increase (the 
portion of) those who do good. -162- But the transgressors among them changed the word from 
that which had been given them so we sent on them a plague from heaven. For that they 
repeatedly transgressed. -163- Ask them concerning the town standing close by the sea. Behold 
they transgressed in the matter of the Sabbath. For on the day their Sabbath their fish did come 