vines and streams flowing underneath, and all kinds of fruit, while he is stricken with old age, 
and his children are not strong (enough to look after themselves)- that it should be caught in a 
whirlwind, with fire therein, and be burnt up? Thus doth Allah make clear to you (His) Signs; that 
ye may consider. -267- O ye who believe! give of the good things which ye have (honourably) 
earned, and of the fruits of the earth which we have produced for you, and do not even aim at 
getting anything which is bad, in order that out of it ye may give away something, w hen ye 
yourselves would not receive it except with closed eyes. And know that Allah is free of all wants, 
and worthy of all praise. -268- The evil one threatens you with poverty and bids you to conduct 
unseemly. Allah promiseth you his forgiveness and bounties. And Allah careth for all and he 
knoweth all things. -269- He granteth wisdom to whom he pleaseth; and he to whom wisdom is 
granted receiveth indeed a benefit overflowing; but none will grasp the message but men of 
understanding. -270- And whatever ye spend in Charity or devotion, be sure Allah knows it all. 
But the wrongdoers have no helpers. -271- If ye disclose (acts of) Charity, even so it is well, but 
if ye conceal them, and make them reach those (really) in need, that is best for you: it will 
remove from you some of your (stains of) evil. And Allah is well acquainted with what ye do.  
15  
-272- It is not required of thee (O Messenger), to set them on the right path, but Allah sets on 
the right path whom He pleaseth. Whatever of good ye give benefits your own souls, and ye 
shall only do so seeking the "Face" of Allah. Whatever good ye give, shall be rendered back to 
you, and ye shall not be dealt with unjustly. -273- (Charity is) for those in need who, in Allah's 
cause are restricted (from travel), and cannot move about in the land, seeking (for trade or 
work): the ignorant man thinks, because of their modesty, that they are free from want. Thou 
shalt. Know them by their (unfailing) mark: they beg not importunately from all and sundry. And 
whatever of good ye give, be assured Allah knoweth it well. -274- Those who (in Charity) spend 
of their goods by night and by day, in secret and in public, have their reward with their Lord: on 
them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve. -275- Those who devour usury will not stand except 
as stands one whom the evil one by his touch hath driven to madness. That is because they 
say: trade is like usury, but Allah hath permitted trade and forbidden usury. Those who after 
receiving direction from their Lord, desist, shall be pardoned for the past; their case is for Allah 
(to judge); but those who repeat (the offence) are companions of the fire: they will abide therein 
(forever). -276- Allah will deprive usury of all blessing, but will give increase for he loveth not 
creatures ungrateful and wicked. -277- Those who believe, and do deeds of righteousness, and 
establish regular Prayers and regular Charity, will have their reward with their Lord: on them 
shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve. -278- O ye who believe! fear Allah, and give up what 
remains of your demand for usury, if ye are indeed Believers. -279- If ye do it not, take notice of 
war from Allah and His Messenger: but if ye turn back, ye shall have your capital sums; deal not 
unjustly, and ye shall not be dealt with unjustly. -280- If the debtor is in a difficulty, grant him 
them till it is easy for him to repay. But if ye remit it by way of Charity, that is best for you if ye 