(ever) be false, he shall, on the day of judgment, restore what he misappropriated; then shall 
every soul receive its due, whatever it earned, and none shall be dealt with unjustly. -162- Is the 
man who follows the good pleasure of Allah like the man who draws on himself the wrath of 
Allah, and whose abode is in Hell? a woeful refuge -163- They are in varying grades in the sight 
of Allah, and Allah sees well all that they do. -164- Allah did confer a great favour on the 
Believers when he sent among them a Messenger from among themselves, rehearsing unto 
them the Signs of Allah, sanctifying them, and instructing them in Scripture and Wisdom, while, 
before that, they had been in manifest error. -165- What when a single disaster smites you, 
although ye smote (your enemies) with one twice as great, do ye say? whence is this? say (to 
them): it is from yourselves: for Allah hath power over all things. -166- What ye suffered on the 
day the tow armies met, was with the leave of Allah, in order that he might test the Believers, 
-167- And the Hypocrites also. These were told: come, fight in the way of Allah, or (at least) 
drive (the foe from your city). They said: had we known how to fight, we should certainly have 
followed  
24  
you. They were that day nearer to unbelief than to Faith, saying with their lips what was not in 
their hearts. But Allah hath full knowledge of all they conceal. -168- (they are) the ones that say, 
(of their brethren slain), while they themselves sit (at ease): if only they had listened to us, they 
would not have been slain. Say: avert death from your own selves, if ye speak the truth. -169- 
Think not of those who are slain in Allah's way as dead. Nay, they live, finding their sustenance 
in the presence of their Lord; -170- They rejoice in the Bounty provided by Allah: and with 
regard to those left behind, who have not yet joined them (in their bliss), the (martyrs) glory in 
the fact than on them is no fear, nor have they (cause to) grieve. -171- They glory in the Grace 
and the Bounty from Allah, and in the fact that Allah suffereth not the reward of the faithful to be 
lost (in the least). -172- Of those who answered the call of Allah and the Messenger, even after 
being wounded, those who do right and refrain from wrong have a great reward - -173- Men 
said to them: a great army is gathering against you: and frightened them: but it (only) increased 
their Faith: they said: for us Allah sufficeth, and he is the best Disposer of affairs. -174- And they 
returned with Grace and Bounty from Allah: no harm ever touched them: for they followed the 
good pleasure of Allah: and Allah is the Lord of bounties unbounded. -175- It is only the evil one 
that suggests to you the fear of his votaries: be ye not afraid of them, but fear me, if ye have 
Faith. -176- Let not those grieve thee who rush headlong into unbelief: not the least harm will 
they do to Allah: Allah's plan is that he will give them no portion in the Hereafter, but a severe 
punishment. -177- Those who purchase unbelief at the price of Faith, not the least harm will 
they do to Allah, but they will have a grievous punishment. -178- Let not the Unbelievers think 
that our respite to them is good for themselves: we grant them respite that they may grow in 
their iniquity: but they will have a shameful punishment. -179- Allah will not leave the Believers 
in the state in which ye are now, until He separates what is evil from what is good. Nor will he 