"Peace!" and hastened to entertain them with a roasted calf. -70- But when he saw their hands 
went not towards the (meal), he felt some mistrust of them, and conceived a fear of them. They 
said: "Fear not: we have been sent against the people of Lut." -71- And his wife was standing 
(there), and she laughed: but We gave her glad tidings of Isaac, and after him, of Jacob. -72- 
She said: "Alas for me! Shall I bear a child, seeing I am an old woman, and my husband here is 
an old man? That would indeed be a wonderful thing!" -73- They said: dost thou wonder at 
Allah's decree? the Grace of Allah and his blessings on you, O ye people of the house for he is 
indeed worthy of all praise, full of all glory -74- When fear had passed from (the mind of) 
Abraham and the glad tidings had reached him, he began to plead with us for Lut's people. -75- 
For Abraham was, without doubt, forbearing (of faults), compassionate, and given to look to 
Allah. -76- O Abraham seek not this. The decree of thy Lord hath gone forth: for them there 
cometh a penalty that cannot be turned back -77- When Our Messengers came to Lut, he was 
grieved on their account and felt himself powerless (to protect) them. He said: "This is a 
distressful day." -78- And his people came rushing towards him, and they had been long in the 
habit of practising abominations. He said: O my people here are my daughters: they are purer 
for you (if ye marry) now fear Allah, and cover me not with shame about my guests is there not 
among you a single right minded man? -79- They said: well dost thou know we have no need of 
thy daughters: indeed thou knowest quite well what we want -80- He said: would that I had 
power to suppress you or that I could betake myself to some powerful support. -81- (The 
Messengers) said: "O Lut! we are Messengers from thy Lord! By no means shall they reach 
thee! Now travel with thy family while yet a part of the night remains, and let not any of you look 
back: but thy wife (will remain behind): to her will happen what happens to the people. Morning 
is their time appointed: is not the morning nigh?" -82- When Our decree issued, We turned (the 
cities) upside down, and rained down on them brimstones hard as baked clay, spread, layer on 
layer- -83- Marked as from thy Lord: nor are they ever far from those who do wrong!  
80  